# Transcript: 7 Senior Designers Show How They Collect Design Inspiration

Source video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aY2dMCimD9A
Language: en (auto-generated) · Duration: 22:08 · Words: 12544
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=aY2dMCimD9A

## Transcript
[0:02] Hey folks, this is Jay and welcome to Hey folks, this is Jay and welcome to Sneak Peek. In this video, I'm going to Sneak Peek. In this video, I'm going to Sneak Peek. In this video, I'm going to show you how seven top designers from show you how seven top designers from show you how seven top designers from companies like Firefox, Intercom, companies like Firefox, Intercom, companies like Firefox, Intercom, Shopify, and many others collect design Shopify, and many others collect design Shopify, and many others collect design inspiration before they even start inspiration before they even start inspiration before they even start working on a design project. working on a design project. working on a design project. With so many designers using different With so many designers using different With so many designers using different AI tools, the output is seeming to look AI tools, the output is seeming to look AI tools, the output is seeming to look very similar. A lot of people call it AI very similar. A lot of people call it AI very similar. A lot of people call it AI slop. slop. slop. I'm curious to know, what do you do I'm curious to know, what do you do I'm curious to know, what do you do to avoid the AI slop? Is there any place

[0:32] to avoid the AI slop? Is there any place to avoid the AI slop? Is there any place you go for inspiration or you go for inspiration or you go for inspiration or &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think first of all, you still want to make first of all, you still want to make first of all, you still want to make sure that you're producing like quality sure that you're producing like quality sure that you're producing like quality designs regardless of the tool that designs regardless of the tool that designs regardless of the tool that you're using. And I looked I take a lot you're using. And I looked I take a lot you're using. And I looked I take a lot of inspiration from other people. And of inspiration from other people. And of inspiration from other people. And one of the ways that I do that is one of the ways that I do that is one of the ways that I do that is through Mobbin. Where for example, like I might look at Where for example, like I might look at how other companies are visualizing how other companies are visualizing how other companies are visualizing voice.

[1:02] voice. voice. Eleven Labs is a pretty big one. Oh, Eleven Labs is a pretty big one. Oh, Eleven Labs is a pretty big one. Oh, here we go. You can't see it very well here we go. You can't see it very well here we go. You can't see it very well here, but this is like an introduction here, but this is like an introduction here, but this is like an introduction to how they might visualize this. So, to how they might visualize this. So, to how they might visualize this. So, you can see they have different assets you can see they have different assets you can see they have different assets here for voice. And it's just a nice way here for voice. And it's just a nice way here for voice. And it's just a nice way to see how other reputable companies are to see how other reputable companies are to see how other reputable companies are solving the similar problems, which is solving the similar problems, which is solving the similar problems, which is really nice. really nice. really nice. &gt;&gt; Love it. Do you recommend getting a &gt;&gt; Love it. Do you recommend getting a &gt;&gt; Love it. Do you recommend getting a Mobbin subscription to folks who don't Mobbin subscription to folks who don't Mobbin subscription to folks who don't have it? have it? have it? Yeah, it's a huge repertoire Yeah, it's a huge repertoire Yeah, it's a huge repertoire of screenshots from so many companies. I

[1:33] of screenshots from so many companies. I of screenshots from so many companies. I have done that whole thing where I try have done that whole thing where I try have done that whole thing where I try to sign up to every single one of them to sign up to every single one of them to sign up to every single one of them and go through the workflow. And you and go through the workflow. And you and go through the workflow. And you know, you get you gain something from know, you get you gain something from know, you get you gain something from that as well because you're actually that as well because you're actually that as well because you're actually going through the flow. But this is just going through the flow. But this is just going through the flow. But this is just so much easier and you get breadth of so much easier and you get breadth of so much easier and you get breadth of inspiration. So, that's nice. inspiration. So, that's nice. inspiration. So, that's nice. Make sense. So then my question to you is, Kastan, So then my question to you is, Kastan, what do you use for design inspiration what do you use for design inspiration what do you use for design inspiration or is there like any resource you use or is there like any resource you use or is there like any resource you use for design inspiration? for design inspiration? for design inspiration? Yes, you're absolutely right on that.

[2:03] Yes, you're absolutely right on that. Yes, you're absolutely right on that. That's design slop. And I think Carl had That's design slop. And I think Carl had That's design slop. And I think Carl had a really good way of putting this. Like a really good way of putting this. Like a really good way of putting this. Like everyone's a seven out of 10 designer everyone's a seven out of 10 designer everyone's a seven out of 10 designer now. Like your AI agent can make you now. Like your AI agent can make you now. Like your AI agent can make you like a decent enough UI in a weekend and like a decent enough UI in a weekend and like a decent enough UI in a weekend and whatever. Like it's it's probably using whatever. Like it's it's probably using whatever. Like it's it's probably using Tailwind or something. But to really Tailwind or something. But to really Tailwind or something. But to really differentiate, like that's where I think differentiate, like that's where I think differentiate, like that's where I think taste and duration and practice come in. taste and duration and practice come in. taste and duration and practice come in. Um Mobbin is like my go-to for curating Um Mobbin is like my go-to for curating Um Mobbin is like my go-to for curating like real experiences. And I have lots like real experiences. And I have lots like real experiences. And I have lots of different boards for just different of different boards for just different of different boards for just different things that give me inspiration across things that give me inspiration across things that give me inspiration across like mobile and web. Um and I'm always

[2:33] like mobile and web. Um and I'm always like mobile and web. Um and I'm always just like coming in here daily to just like coming in here daily to just like coming in here daily to bookmark stuff and thinking through and bookmark stuff and thinking through and bookmark stuff and thinking through and studying different UIs. Pinterest is studying different UIs. Pinterest is studying different UIs. Pinterest is more like where I go for like juice and more like where I go for like juice and more like where I go for like juice and taste. There's just really cool stuff on taste. There's just really cool stuff on taste. There's just really cool stuff on Pinterest and you can create boards and Pinterest and you can create boards and Pinterest and you can create boards and like curate vibes and stuff. So, I'm like curate vibes and stuff. So, I'm like curate vibes and stuff. So, I'm always just like building out kind of always just like building out kind of always just like building out kind of collections there as well. Between those collections there as well. Between those collections there as well. Between those two tools, I don't know what else you two tools, I don't know what else you two tools, I don't know what else you need. Like maybe layers.to is okay. need. Like maybe layers.to is okay. need. Like maybe layers.to is okay. Layers, they've got some cool stuff. Layers, they've got some cool stuff. Layers, they've got some cool stuff. Dribbble's kind of dead now, like Dribbble's kind of dead now, like Dribbble's kind of dead now, like unfortunately, but layers is cool. unfortunately, but layers is cool. unfortunately, but layers is cool. Twitter itself is also I'm always Twitter itself is also I'm always Twitter itself is also I'm always bookmarking stuff on Twitter. And then

[3:04] bookmarking stuff on Twitter. And then bookmarking stuff on Twitter. And then we've also got an internal tool now we've also got an internal tool now we've also got an internal tool now called Studio, which is like a Shopify called Studio, which is like a Shopify called Studio, which is like a Shopify Dribbble. So, people are posting like Dribbble. So, people are posting like Dribbble. So, people are posting like stuff that they're tinkering with in stuff that they're tinkering with in stuff that they're tinkering with in here. So, this is also a cool source of here. So, this is also a cool source of here. So, this is also a cool source of inspiration internally. inspiration internally. inspiration internally. Oh, wow. And then so with this internal Oh, wow. And then so with this internal Oh, wow. And then so with this internal Dribbble at Shopify, which is called Dribbble at Shopify, which is called Dribbble at Shopify, which is called Studio, let's click on I mean I maybe Studio, let's click on I mean I maybe Studio, let's click on I mean I maybe it's production you cannot click on it, it's production you cannot click on it, it's production you cannot click on it, but is it like does it have any link to but is it like does it have any link to but is it like does it have any link to PRs or is just like does it like does it PRs or is just like does it like does it PRs or is just like does it like does it no context just no context just no context just Like oh, I see. Like oh, I see. Like oh, I see. &gt;&gt; and some links and stuff. People do &gt;&gt; and some links and stuff. People do &gt;&gt; and some links and stuff. People do share some screen recordings of code

[3:35] share some screen recordings of code share some screen recordings of code prototypes. Right now, it's more like prototypes. Right now, it's more like prototypes. Right now, it's more like visual and motion forward and generative visual and motion forward and generative visual and motion forward and generative and people are showing stuff that and people are showing stuff that and people are showing stuff that they're exploring on the way to they're exploring on the way to they're exploring on the way to different solutions. But yeah, it's different solutions. But yeah, it's different solutions. But yeah, it's playful. It's more like design centric. playful. It's more like design centric. playful. It's more like design centric. &gt;&gt; Is this only for the design team or can &gt;&gt; Is this only for the design team or can &gt;&gt; Is this only for the design team or can Toby also go in and see what's going on Toby also go in and see what's going on Toby also go in and see what's going on here? here? here? &gt;&gt; Yeah, yeah. So, it's like the &gt;&gt; Yeah, yeah. So, it's like the &gt;&gt; Yeah, yeah. So, it's like the shopify.io. So, it's internal. Anyone shopify.io. So, it's internal. Anyone shopify.io. So, it's internal. Anyone can go in and hang out in here. can go in and hang out in here. can go in and hang out in here. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I open up like a FigJam and I &gt;&gt; Yeah. I open up like a FigJam and I &gt;&gt; Yeah. I open up like a FigJam and I start to just like mentally record some start to just like mentally record some start to just like mentally record some of the what I want to do. And that might of the what I want to do. And that might of the what I want to do. And that might be with like some screenshots of visual be with like some screenshots of visual be with like some screenshots of visual inspiration that I got from Mobbin. It inspiration that I got from Mobbin. It inspiration that I got from Mobbin. It might be with my own little boxy

[4:05] might be with my own little boxy might be with my own little boxy diagrams. Why is that yellow stuff diagrams. Why is that yellow stuff diagrams. Why is that yellow stuff there? Like I see a bunch of like yellow there? Like I see a bunch of like yellow there? Like I see a bunch of like yellow highlights. Like why did you do that in highlights. Like why did you do that in highlights. Like why did you do that in the screenshots? As I'm going through the screenshots? As I'm going through the screenshots? As I'm going through Mobbin, if I'm like Mobbin, if I'm like Mobbin, if I'm like solving a specific thing, what I start solving a specific thing, what I start solving a specific thing, what I start to do is make a mood board of to do is make a mood board of to do is make a mood board of screenshots and start to highlight screenshots and start to highlight screenshots and start to highlight specific things that are applicable to specific things that are applicable to specific things that are applicable to what I'm doing. So, let me take a step what I'm doing. So, let me take a step what I'm doing. So, let me take a step back. The thing that I'm solving in this back. The thing that I'm solving in this back. The thing that I'm solving in this little exploration is I want to think little exploration is I want to think little exploration is I want to think about an AI generated content creation about an AI generated content creation about an AI generated content creation tool within Shopify. So,

[4:35] tool within Shopify. So, tool within Shopify. So, in in in Shopify today, there is a section that Shopify today, there is a section that Shopify today, there is a section that has your files. You can upload and has your files. You can upload and has your files. You can upload and manage those. I want to think a little manage those. I want to think a little manage those. I want to think a little bit more about like if I take that file bit more about like if I take that file bit more about like if I take that file and I I open it up, if I can generate and I I open it up, if I can generate and I I open it up, if I can generate different backgrounds with AI, if I different backgrounds with AI, if I different backgrounds with AI, if I could like come up with creative to could like come up with creative to could like come up with creative to solve the problem that merchants have solve the problem that merchants have solve the problem that merchants have around like wanting content to post on around like wanting content to post on around like wanting content to post on social through brand discovery. social through brand discovery. social through brand discovery. Um and so back back in in here where I'm Um and so back back in in here where I'm Um and so back back in in here where I'm actually like starting to think about actually like starting to think about actually like starting to think about it. I'm doing these diagrams and and it. I'm doing these diagrams and and it. I'm doing these diagrams and and think ideas with boxes. I'm going on think ideas with boxes. I'm going on think ideas with boxes. I'm going on Mobbin and I'm like curating specific

[5:07] Mobbin and I'm like curating specific Mobbin and I'm like curating specific things that solve similar problems from things that solve similar problems from things that solve similar problems from similar tools or even just different similar tools or even just different similar tools or even just different ones where there's inspiration. And then ones where there's inspiration. And then ones where there's inspiration. And then I'm like coming in and like highlighting I'm like coming in and like highlighting I'm like coming in and like highlighting the the sections that I want to to keep. the the sections that I want to to keep. the the sections that I want to to keep. Like I think Like I think Like I think for Midjourney for example, they've got for Midjourney for example, they've got for Midjourney for example, they've got this cool little like control panel. I this cool little like control panel. I this cool little like control panel. I think that's like an interesting think that's like an interesting think that's like an interesting element. So, I highlighted that. element. So, I highlighted that. element. So, I highlighted that. For Midjourney, they have this For Midjourney, they have this For Midjourney, they have this interesting way that they're managing interesting way that they're managing interesting way that they're managing like the sorting of all these like the sorting of all these like the sorting of all these generations that you're doing in the generations that you're doing in the generations that you're doing in the gallery. And these are some other like gallery. And these are some other like gallery. And these are some other like little mobile ones that I thought like little mobile ones that I thought like little mobile ones that I thought like had some controls and stuff that were had some controls and stuff that were had some controls and stuff that were interesting. It's like really just a

[5:37] interesting. It's like really just a interesting. It's like really just a starting point to start to think about starting point to start to think about starting point to start to think about some of the elements for this. some of the elements for this. some of the elements for this. The reason I call this out is because I The reason I call this out is because I The reason I call this out is because I see a lot of designers they just like see a lot of designers they just like see a lot of designers they just like dump their inspiration and there's no dump their inspiration and there's no dump their inspiration and there's no context like the way you've highlighted context like the way you've highlighted context like the way you've highlighted what exactly inspired you. what exactly inspired you. what exactly inspired you. Yeah, I think like well, there's a Yeah, I think like well, there's a Yeah, I think like well, there's a couple of things to this. If you're couple of things to this. If you're couple of things to this. If you're working with other people, you can like working with other people, you can like working with other people, you can like point at the specific parts of something point at the specific parts of something point at the specific parts of something that you're curious about like that you're curious about like that you're curious about like recreating or inspired by. If you're recreating or inspired by. If you're recreating or inspired by. If you're working with code agents, you can like

[6:07] working with code agents, you can like working with code agents, you can like precisely screenshot something and give precisely screenshot something and give precisely screenshot something and give it give it that screenshot to work with. it give it that screenshot to work with. it give it that screenshot to work with. So, they think there's just the value in So, they think there's just the value in So, they think there's just the value in like being more specific. Like even like being more specific. Like even like being more specific. Like even cropping the things that you're like cropping the things that you're like cropping the things that you're like actually caring about and stuff. Like I actually caring about and stuff. Like I actually caring about and stuff. Like I think otherwise it's think otherwise it's think otherwise it's there's too much information in these there's too much information in these there's too much information in these screenshots to know like what you what screenshots to know like what you what screenshots to know like what you what you're inspired by. you're inspired by. you're inspired by. I usually even do this like in the I usually even do this like in the I usually even do this like in the morning over the coffee for 10 minutes morning over the coffee for 10 minutes morning over the coffee for 10 minutes to just like checking it out. I'm to just like checking it out. I'm to just like checking it out. I'm constantly like saving interesting constantly like saving interesting constantly like saving interesting things things things into different collections and stuff. into different collections and stuff. into different collections and stuff. Oh, wait. You're you're dedicating 10 Oh, wait. You're you're dedicating 10 Oh, wait. You're you're dedicating 10 minutes of your daily routine to this?

[6:37] minutes of your daily routine to this? minutes of your daily routine to this? Like getting inspiration and all that Like getting inspiration and all that Like getting inspiration and all that stuff? stuff? stuff? Yeah, yeah. I mean most days. Like I Yeah, yeah. I mean most days. Like I Yeah, yeah. I mean most days. Like I think I don't know. I'm think I don't know. I'm think I don't know. I'm garbage in, garbage out like or the garbage in, garbage out like or the garbage in, garbage out like or the opposite. Like if you're absorbing bad opposite. Like if you're absorbing bad opposite. Like if you're absorbing bad stuff, you're going to make bad stuff. stuff, you're going to make bad stuff. stuff, you're going to make bad stuff. If you're absorbing good stuff If you're absorbing good stuff If you're absorbing good stuff constantly, you're going to like have constantly, you're going to like have constantly, you're going to like have more patterns and ideas in your mind. So, bingo. Before you begin working on So, bingo. Before you begin working on any project or any feature, any project or any feature, any project or any feature, where do you go for design inspiration? where do you go for design inspiration? where do you go for design inspiration? So, it always depends on the project. It

[7:07] So, it always depends on the project. It So, it always depends on the project. It depends on what you the problem that depends on what you the problem that depends on what you the problem that you're trying to solve, obviously. you're trying to solve, obviously. you're trying to solve, obviously. There is some projects where the design There is some projects where the design There is some projects where the design inspiration or the kind of the solution inspiration or the kind of the solution inspiration or the kind of the solution and the inspiration, it's directly just and the inspiration, it's directly just and the inspiration, it's directly just talking to your users and kind of talking to your users and kind of talking to your users and kind of figuring out things internally and figuring out things internally and figuring out things internally and talking to a bunch of people internally. talking to a bunch of people internally. talking to a bunch of people internally. There is other projects where like There is other projects where like There is other projects where like you're dealing with a very complex you're dealing with a very complex you're dealing with a very complex interaction or something that is interaction or something that is interaction or something that is entirely different and you haven't seen entirely different and you haven't seen entirely different and you haven't seen it before. it before. it before. And And And a tool that I use a lot is my mind. My a tool that I use a lot is my mind. My a tool that I use a lot is my mind. My mind is where I save everything. mind is where I save everything. mind is where I save everything. So, you can see here I save videos, I

[7:37] So, you can see here I save videos, I So, you can see here I save videos, I save illustration. I like lots of save illustration. I like lots of save illustration. I like lots of baseball stuff, so I save baseball baseball stuff, so I save baseball baseball stuff, so I save baseball stuff. I like, you know, stamps. I save stuff. I like, you know, stamps. I save stuff. I like, you know, stamps. I save UI that I find really interesting. UI that I find really interesting. UI that I find really interesting. Typography that I find interesting. So, Typography that I find interesting. So, Typography that I find interesting. So, I think it's very important for I think it's very important for I think it's very important for designers to designers to designers to to have a dedicated space where they're to have a dedicated space where they're to have a dedicated space where they're saving stuff that they like. And they're saving stuff that they like. And they're saving stuff that they like. And they're really examining the stuff that they really examining the stuff that they really examining the stuff that they like and they're creating a essentially like and they're creating a essentially like and they're creating a essentially the act of saving all of this, the act of saving all of this, the act of saving all of this, of creating it, of sometimes removing

[8:07] of creating it, of sometimes removing of creating it, of sometimes removing something because you don't like it something because you don't like it something because you don't like it anymore or like starting it, anymore or like starting it, anymore or like starting it, it just builds your taste and it keeps it just builds your taste and it keeps it just builds your taste and it keeps you kind of always sharp on like what you kind of always sharp on like what you kind of always sharp on like what you like, what you don't like, what you you like, what you don't like, what you you like, what you don't like, what you think is good, what you don't think is think is good, what you don't think is think is good, what you don't think is good. So, I tend to save a lot of things good. So, I tend to save a lot of things good. So, I tend to save a lot of things in my mind. in my mind. in my mind. A second place that I use for A second place that I use for A second place that I use for inspiration is X. X is great. I'm inspiration is X. X is great. I'm inspiration is X. X is great. I'm constantly checking in X. I don't post constantly checking in X. I don't post constantly checking in X. I don't post that much, but there is always really uh that much, but there is always really uh that much, but there is always really uh inspiration for product. Some inspiration for product. Some inspiration for product. Some interactions are great, some interactions are great, some interactions are great, some interactions are weird. There is some interactions are weird. There is some interactions are weird. There is some illustration as well in here and you can

[8:37] illustration as well in here and you can illustration as well in here and you can see here this is really helpful for like see here this is really helpful for like see here this is really helpful for like even for some of the stuff that we even for some of the stuff that we even for some of the stuff that we discussed today, this whole idea of like discussed today, this whole idea of like discussed today, this whole idea of like drop-downs. And then I use Mobbin. I use drop-downs. And then I use Mobbin. I use drop-downs. And then I use Mobbin. I use Mobbin as well. And Mobbin is great Mobbin as well. And Mobbin is great Mobbin as well. And Mobbin is great essentially when essentially when essentially when I'm getting closer to building a pattern I'm getting closer to building a pattern I'm getting closer to building a pattern that I want for that pattern to be very that I want for that pattern to be very that I want for that pattern to be very robust and I want to just cross-check if robust and I want to just cross-check if robust and I want to just cross-check if any any any any other company is facing the same any other company is facing the same any other company is facing the same problems with that pattern basically. problems with that pattern basically. problems with that pattern basically. So, and this is very very helpful when So, and this is very very helpful when So, and this is very very helpful when you're checking for kind of something you're checking for kind of something you're checking for kind of something that a lot of other companies are

[9:09] that a lot of other companies are that a lot of other companies are experiencing in terms of like design. experiencing in terms of like design. experiencing in terms of like design. So, things like how does every company So, things like how does every company So, things like how does every company handles navigation? handles navigation? handles navigation? How does every company handle search? How does every company handle search? How does every company handle search? How does every company company handles How does every company company handles How does every company company handles like a stepper component? And and and like a stepper component? And and and like a stepper component? And and and you can really get inspired here about you can really get inspired here about you can really get inspired here about how they do it. And it's great because how they do it. And it's great because how they do it. And it's great because actually you can search for actually you can search for actually you can search for specific sites. You can save for specific sites. You can save for specific sites. You can save for categories. You can go in directly into categories. You can go in directly into categories. You can go in directly into an app that you like. So, you can if you an app that you like. So, you can if you an app that you like. So, you can if you like OpenAI, you can go into OpenAI and like OpenAI, you can go into OpenAI and like OpenAI, you can go into OpenAI and you can actually like

[9:40] you can actually like you can actually like check the whole flow. So, you can check check the whole flow. So, you can check check the whole flow. So, you can check check for screens, for UI elements, and check for screens, for UI elements, and check for screens, for UI elements, and for flows. And you can for flows. And you can for flows. And you can really go into town to that flow. really go into town to that flow. really go into town to that flow. Obviously, it's you can always open Obviously, it's you can always open Obviously, it's you can always open OpenAI yourself and navigate with it, OpenAI yourself and navigate with it, OpenAI yourself and navigate with it, but this is great because it gives you but this is great because it gives you but this is great because it gives you all of the screenshots. You can save all of the screenshots. You can save all of the screenshots. You can save that screenshot into Figma. And and I've that screenshot into Figma. And and I've that screenshot into Figma. And and I've been using it a lot and I think and even been using it a lot and I think and even been using it a lot and I think and even for like the filter designs that I for like the filter designs that I for like the filter designs that I showed you at the beginning showed you at the beginning showed you at the beginning when I was doing examples and I did a when I was doing examples and I did a when I was doing examples and I did a whole kind of like of like how all the

[10:10] whole kind of like of like how all the whole kind of like of like how all the companies are doing filtering companies are doing filtering companies are doing filtering and Moven was great for this. You can and Moven was great for this. You can and Moven was great for this. You can see here that I save things query with see here that I save things query with see here that I save things query with Moven and it's just me checking like all Moven and it's just me checking like all Moven and it's just me checking like all the apps and kind of annotating them. the apps and kind of annotating them. the apps and kind of annotating them. And this is where Moven is is great. You And this is where Moven is is great. You And this is where Moven is is great. You can actually check all the apps and this can actually check all the apps and this can actually check all the apps and this is where is where is where where from in my mind now Figma shines where from in my mind now Figma shines where from in my mind now Figma shines and still shines is for this. It's like and still shines is for this. It's like and still shines is for this. It's like the whiteboard aspect of it. Being able the whiteboard aspect of it. Being able the whiteboard aspect of it. Being able to like put things on a canvas, annotate to like put things on a canvas, annotate to like put things on a canvas, annotate it with a post-it note. You're not going it with a post-it note. You're not going it with a post-it note. You're not going to build anything here. It's just like a to build anything here. It's just like a to build anything here. It's just like a thinking tool.

[10:40] thinking tool. thinking tool. For this is great. And that is For this is great. And that is For this is great. And that is essentially how I'm collecting essentially how I'm collecting essentially how I'm collecting inspiration. inspiration. inspiration. Got it. Where do you go to get design Where do you go to get design inspiration? inspiration? inspiration? So aside from those links, So aside from those links, So aside from those links, I spend a ton of time in Moven. Like I spend a ton of time in Moven. Like I spend a ton of time in Moven. Like basically just looking at what basically just looking at what basically just looking at what everyone's doing. It's got better and everyone's doing. It's got better and everyone's doing. It's got better and better especially now I think for design better especially now I think for design better especially now I think for design engineers like engineers like engineers like it's always a tricky thing it's always a tricky thing it's always a tricky thing because I get scared about saying that because I get scared about saying that because I get scared about saying that design engineering is a lot about motion design engineering is a lot about motion design engineering is a lot about motion because then everybody sort of drifts

[11:12] because then everybody sort of drifts because then everybody sort of drifts too much towards like a design engineer too much towards like a design engineer too much towards like a design engineer is a motion designer which is not the is a motion designer which is not the is a motion designer which is not the case. case. case. But because design engineers are so But because design engineers are so But because design engineers are so focused on like the final 10% and the focused on like the final 10% and the focused on like the final 10% and the kind of the real finesse to a UI very kind of the real finesse to a UI very kind of the real finesse to a UI very often that comes down to being about often that comes down to being about often that comes down to being about motion and that's just typically because motion and that's just typically because motion and that's just typically because motion is the stuff that motion is the stuff that motion is the stuff that in a lot of project timelines just gets in a lot of project timelines just gets in a lot of project timelines just gets axed off the end because you know, we axed off the end because you know, we axed off the end because you know, we need to ship it in a week less than the need to ship it in a week less than the need to ship it in a week less than the original allocate time. So you know,

[11:43] original allocate time. So you know, original allocate time. So you know, what can we cut? Oh, we can cut the what can we cut? Oh, we can cut the what can we cut? Oh, we can cut the motion. That's not important. motion. That's not important. motion. That's not important. So So So since Moven added like all of this since Moven added like all of this since Moven added like all of this motion like you can see a bunch of stuff motion like you can see a bunch of stuff motion like you can see a bunch of stuff playing here. Like this has been playing here. Like this has been playing here. Like this has been game-changer for me because game-changer for me because game-changer for me because originally it would be like I'd be originally it would be like I'd be originally it would be like I'd be trawling through apps on my phone trying trawling through apps on my phone trying trawling through apps on my phone trying to be like oh, what's got a good example to be like oh, what's got a good example to be like oh, what's got a good example of motion and then like screen record it of motion and then like screen record it of motion and then like screen record it myself and then try and like pick it myself and then try and like pick it myself and then try and like pick it apart. apart. apart. But that shit's hard. And they've done But that shit's hard. And they've done But that shit's hard. And they've done such a good job of curating like all the such a good job of curating like all the such a good job of curating like all the good moments. And there's just like so

[12:14] good moments. And there's just like so good moments. And there's just like so much cool stuff like you just you you much cool stuff like you just you you much cool stuff like you just you you can look at this screen for a minute and can look at this screen for a minute and can look at this screen for a minute and like like like be like oh, cool. Like what's going on be like oh, cool. Like what's going on be like oh, cool. Like what's going on this like this looks really interesting. this like this looks really interesting. this like this looks really interesting. Like I like this. Let's have a look. Like I like this. Let's have a look. Like I like this. Let's have a look. Like Like Like there is so much cool stuff. And so this there is so much cool stuff. And so this there is so much cool stuff. And so this is probably my most used tool I would is probably my most used tool I would is probably my most used tool I would say for like visual inspiration. say for like visual inspiration. say for like visual inspiration. Outside of that it's a lot of like Outside of that it's a lot of like Outside of that it's a lot of like manual like just like hunting manual like just like hunting manual like just like hunting maybe like a little bit on X still. maybe like a little bit on X still. maybe like a little bit on X still. That's like where a lot of people are That's like where a lot of people are That's like where a lot of people are posting still for design. posting still for design. posting still for design. Um all of just like general usage of

[12:44] Um all of just like general usage of Um all of just like general usage of tools. So like when I'm using my tools. So like when I'm using my tools. So like when I'm using my day-to-day products, you know, I'll be day-to-day products, you know, I'll be day-to-day products, you know, I'll be keeping an eye stuff. I work on AI at keeping an eye stuff. I work on AI at keeping an eye stuff. I work on AI at DuckDuckGo and so DuckDuckGo and so DuckDuckGo and so like for me things like you know, if I'm like for me things like you know, if I'm like for me things like you know, if I'm doing a change like I don't know doing a change like I don't know doing a change like I don't know anything. Like anything. Like anything. Like See who's I don't know. I'm just making See who's I don't know. I'm just making See who's I don't know. I'm just making stuff up. But like you know, I'll be stuff up. But like you know, I'll be stuff up. But like you know, I'll be keeping an eye on like how does this keeping an eye on like how does this keeping an eye on like how does this thinking state work? Like what are they thinking state work? Like what are they thinking state work? Like what are they doing? How's how's this behaving? Like doing? How's how's this behaving? Like doing? How's how's this behaving? Like what's this change look like? How are what's this change look like? How are what's this change look like? How are these transitions feeling?

[13:14] these transitions feeling? these transitions feeling? Like all of that stuff matters to me and Like all of that stuff matters to me and Like all of that stuff matters to me and so so so I think a lot of the time it's like an I think a lot of the time it's like an I think a lot of the time it's like an intrinsic intrinsic set of inspiration intrinsic intrinsic set of inspiration intrinsic intrinsic set of inspiration where I'm not specifically seeking it where I'm not specifically seeking it where I'm not specifically seeking it here. Like I'm just seeing it in use and here. Like I'm just seeing it in use and here. Like I'm just seeing it in use and then like internalizing it and turning then like internalizing it and turning then like internalizing it and turning that into something that I'm then going that into something that I'm then going that into something that I'm then going to try and reproduce or replicate in the to try and reproduce or replicate in the to try and reproduce or replicate in the tool that I'm using called the thing tool that I'm using called the thing tool that I'm using called the thing that I'm creating. We just document everything here below We just document everything here below and we usually so we do two things. So

[13:45] and we usually so we do two things. So and we usually so we do two things. So sometimes we try it out ourselves sometimes we try it out ourselves sometimes we try it out ourselves because I think that's because I think that's because I think that's different than looking at just different than looking at just different than looking at just screenshots and you get a sense of like screenshots and you get a sense of like screenshots and you get a sense of like what I actually do. What what's the what I actually do. What what's the what I actually do. What what's the motion design? What are the transitions? motion design? What are the transitions? motion design? What are the transitions? How does it feel to interact with it? So How does it feel to interact with it? So How does it feel to interact with it? So I think it's really important to try it I think it's really important to try it I think it's really important to try it out and get a feel for it. But we also out and get a feel for it. But we also out and get a feel for it. But we also use as you can see here we use Moven use as you can see here we use Moven use as you can see here we use Moven which is actually a screenshot service which is actually a screenshot service which is actually a screenshot service which makes it super quick to just pull which makes it super quick to just pull which makes it super quick to just pull out all the journeys. I mean this would

[14:17] out all the journeys. I mean this would out all the journeys. I mean this would be so much work if you would just do it be so much work if you would just do it be so much work if you would just do it on your phone. Right? on your phone. Right? on your phone. Right? Yeah, I'm curious like when you go to Yeah, I'm curious like when you go to Yeah, I'm curious like when you go to Moven, how do you look for design Moven, how do you look for design Moven, how do you look for design inspiration? Because there is they have inspiration? Because there is they have inspiration? Because there is they have so many screenshots. So if you were to so many screenshots. So if you were to so many screenshots. So if you were to go to Moven and search for it, how would go to Moven and search for it, how would go to Moven and search for it, how would you even go about it? Like do you just you even go about it? Like do you just you even go about it? Like do you just search for specific do you type in that search for specific do you type in that search for specific do you type in that I want to see I want to see I want to see fingerprint security? Do I want to see fingerprint security? Do I want to see fingerprint security? Do I want to see onboarding? Like how do you even do the onboarding? Like how do you even do the onboarding? Like how do you even do the search? Like what keywords are you search? Like what keywords are you search? Like what keywords are you looking for? Yeah, let's see. Maybe I looking for? Yeah, let's see. Maybe I looking for? Yeah, let's see. Maybe I can show you quickly. Let me Let me pull

[14:47] can show you quickly. Let me Let me pull can show you quickly. Let me Let me pull this over. So here So for example for this over. So here So for example for this over. So here So for example for let's say for what for WhatsApp. So you let's say for what for WhatsApp. So you let's say for what for WhatsApp. So you can just search can search whatever app can just search can search whatever app can just search can search whatever app you're looking for. WhatsApp in this you're looking for. WhatsApp in this you're looking for. WhatsApp in this case, right? So and then you get like a case, right? So and then you get like a case, right? So and then you get like a a whole bunch like um of of screenshots a whole bunch like um of of screenshots a whole bunch like um of of screenshots and then you can here select if you are and then you can here select if you are and then you can here select if you are kind of like okay, just show me all the kind of like okay, just show me all the kind of like okay, just show me all the whatever. whatever. whatever. How does how do you actually do a How does how do you actually do a How does how do you actually do a switch, right? And then you are okay, switch, right? And then you are okay, switch, right? And then you are okay, good. Whatever. Maybe not super

[15:17] good. Whatever. Maybe not super good. Whatever. Maybe not super interesting, but you can also go here to interesting, but you can also go here to interesting, but you can also go here to flows. You got flows and then you have flows. You got flows and then you have flows. You got flows and then you have like all the onboarding. You have like a like all the onboarding. You have like a like all the onboarding. You have like a list of like the core kind of yeah, it's list of like the core kind of yeah, it's list of like the core kind of yeah, it's it's massive. it's massive. it's massive. &gt;&gt; know it was possible. &gt;&gt; know it was possible. &gt;&gt; know it was possible. Yeah. I know. It's kind of like Yeah. I know. It's kind of like Yeah. I know. It's kind of like sometimes I get lost like I just saw, sometimes I get lost like I just saw, sometimes I get lost like I just saw, but it's it's actually very very but it's it's actually very very but it's it's actually very very obvious. So you have like different ways obvious. So you have like different ways obvious. So you have like different ways to to look like UI elements. I find that to to look like UI elements. I find that to to look like UI elements. I find that sometimes helpful. I mean not really for sometimes helpful. I mean not really for sometimes helpful. I mean not really for for switches, but uh segmented controls for switches, but uh segmented controls for switches, but uh segmented controls can be interesting, right? Um or or

[15:48] can be interesting, right? Um or or can be interesting, right? Um or or other stuff and but the flows are really other stuff and but the flows are really other stuff and but the flows are really handy. handy. handy. Right? Right? Right? So yeah, so that's kind of like and then So yeah, so that's kind of like and then So yeah, so that's kind of like and then you go kind of like okay to onboarding. you go kind of like okay to onboarding. you go kind of like okay to onboarding. You can just do like a right click, copy You can just do like a right click, copy You can just do like a right click, copy the screen here and you go back to your the screen here and you go back to your the screen here and you go back to your Figma and you can just put it in here, Figma and you can just put it in here, Figma and you can just put it in here, right? So super quick. I mean it wasn't right? So super quick. I mean it wasn't right? So super quick. I mean it wasn't the most useful screen, but that's how the most useful screen, but that's how the most useful screen, but that's how we got all of these here. And as you can we got all of these here. And as you can we got all of these here. And as you can imagine it's just like very very fast. imagine it's just like very very fast. imagine it's just like very very fast. And I mean let me zoom out. I And then

[16:19] And I mean let me zoom out. I And then And I mean let me zoom out. I And then you can also cover a lot of ground when you can also cover a lot of ground when you can also cover a lot of ground when you do it like that. And just um you you do it like that. And just um you you do it like that. And just um you know, and and you also have like the on know, and and you also have like the on know, and and you also have like the on Moven you have like the platforms. You Moven you have like the platforms. You Moven you have like the platforms. You have iOS. You have Android. have iOS. You have Android. have iOS. You have Android. Yeah, definitely something to explore. I Yeah, definitely something to explore. I Yeah, definitely something to explore. I always find Yeah, you have like you web always find Yeah, you have like you web always find Yeah, you have like you web and iOS stuff a lot to explore on Moven. and iOS stuff a lot to explore on Moven. and iOS stuff a lot to explore on Moven. I can definitely really recommend that I can definitely really recommend that I can definitely really recommend that tool to tool to tool to increase the speed of your workflow increase the speed of your workflow increase the speed of your workflow here. And to just I think it's so

[16:50] here. And to just I think it's so here. And to just I think it's so helpful to like competitor research or helpful to like competitor research or helpful to like competitor research or find inspiration real quick. Sometimes find inspiration real quick. Sometimes find inspiration real quick. Sometimes when you get stuck it just go here and when you get stuck it just go here and when you get stuck it just go here and I'm like okay, show me just everything I'm like okay, show me just everything I'm like okay, show me just everything you know about for example about error you know about for example about error you know about for example about error pages because they can be so much fun pages because they can be so much fun pages because they can be so much fun if done right. You know, was like not if done right. You know, was like not if done right. You know, was like not like that, but but like the little UFO like that, but but like the little UFO like that, but but like the little UFO beaming up the cat or like a lot beaming up the cat or like a lot beaming up the cat or like a lot illustrations and stuff just to get illustrations and stuff just to get illustrations and stuff just to get really a quick idea.

[17:21] There's so much AI slop out there. The There's so much AI slop out there. The things you can generate with cursor and things you can generate with cursor and things you can generate with cursor and all these different AI tools. all these different AI tools. all these different AI tools. What do you use for design inspiration What do you use for design inspiration What do you use for design inspiration to stand out? to stand out? to stand out? Yeah, that's a good question. I Yeah, that's a good question. I Yeah, that's a good question. I typically like to just go to a tool that typically like to just go to a tool that typically like to just go to a tool that provides like just some references and provides like just some references and provides like just some references and patterns and see what's happening like patterns and see what's happening like patterns and see what's happening like best in class like applications. So I best in class like applications. So I best in class like applications. So I use like tools like Moven which isn't use like tools like Moven which isn't use like tools like Moven which isn't super great for me. Especially in the super great for me. Especially in the super great for me. Especially in the beginnings of the process. I think it's beginnings of the process. I think it's beginnings of the process. I think it's a great place to start to see like what a great place to start to see like what a great place to start to see like what the industry standards are. What are the the industry standards are. What are the the industry standards are. What are the common patterns that you're seeing common patterns that you're seeing common patterns that you're seeing bubbling up? And a lot of things don't

[17:51] bubbling up? And a lot of things don't bubbling up? And a lot of things don't need like reinvention, right? So like need like reinvention, right? So like need like reinvention, right? So like I'm working with like access control and I'm working with like access control and I'm working with like access control and making sure that users have the specific making sure that users have the specific making sure that users have the specific permissions. Like we don't need to have permissions. Like we don't need to have permissions. Like we don't need to have be super novel about it, right? I think be super novel about it, right? I think be super novel about it, right? I think it's like a good reference point to it's like a good reference point to it's like a good reference point to understand. understand. understand. &gt;&gt; So you specifically search for access &gt;&gt; So you specifically search for access &gt;&gt; So you specifically search for access control on Moven? Like just to see the control on Moven? Like just to see the control on Moven? Like just to see the examples? examples? examples? Not particularly access control itself, Not particularly access control itself, Not particularly access control itself, but I would like to look at a maybe I but I would like to look at a maybe I but I would like to look at a maybe I don't know a settings page for example. don't know a settings page for example. don't know a settings page for example. And let's go to I don't know Origin for And let's go to I don't know Origin for And let's go to I don't know Origin for example. Let's look to see what we can example. Let's look to see what we can example. Let's look to see what we can find here. This is actually just the find here. This is actually just the find here. This is actually just the site. Oh, so there's two different site. Oh, so there's two different site. Oh, so there's two different things you can look for, right? You can things you can look for, right? You can things you can look for, right? You can look for apps or sites. So since we're

[18:22] look for apps or sites. So since we're look for apps or sites. So since we're looking at apps like that's what we want looking at apps like that's what we want looking at apps like that's what we want to maybe want to search for. So let's to maybe want to search for. So let's to maybe want to search for. So let's look at Airbnb for example. look at Airbnb for example. look at Airbnb for example. And what is great about this is that And what is great about this is that And what is great about this is that everything is like everything is like everything is like organized really well. We have like organized really well. We have like organized really well. We have like specific flows. You can look at UI specific flows. You can look at UI specific flows. You can look at UI elements. So this has been super elements. So this has been super elements. So this has been super helpful. Like I think this is right here helpful. Like I think this is right here helpful. Like I think this is right here is like gold. You can just go to like is like gold. You can just go to like is like gold. You can just go to like specific places and say, "Hey, I'm specific places and say, "Hey, I'm specific places and say, "Hey, I'm looking for something maybe in the in looking for something maybe in the in looking for something maybe in the in details about something like a card details about something like a card details about something like a card detail or So everything here is specific detail or So everything here is specific detail or So everything here is specific to Airbnb obviously, but let's go to

[18:53] to Airbnb obviously, but let's go to to Airbnb obviously, but let's go to something like account settings. So this something like account settings. So this something like account settings. So this is the place that I live, right? is the place that I live, right? is the place that I live, right? Deactivation account privacy, personal Deactivation account privacy, personal Deactivation account privacy, personal data. Look at You can kind of look at data. Look at You can kind of look at data. Look at You can kind of look at these patterns and if I'm just looking these patterns and if I'm just looking these patterns and if I'm just looking at one for example, I'm like, "Okay, at one for example, I'm like, "Okay, at one for example, I'm like, "Okay, cool. We're seeing like a left-hand side cool. We're seeing like a left-hand side cool. We're seeing like a left-hand side navigation. We have our main navigation navigation. We have our main navigation navigation. We have our main navigation of our application, but what I'm most of our application, but what I'm most of our application, but what I'm most interested in is the sort of the pattern interested in is the sort of the pattern interested in is the sort of the pattern for how they're organizing and looking for how they're organizing and looking for how they're organizing and looking at basically different sections of at basically different sections of at basically different sections of different controls. We have toggles here different controls. We have toggles here different controls. We have toggles here and you can go through each of these and you can go through each of these and you can go through each of these sections. Some of them have like deeper sections. Some of them have like deeper sections. Some of them have like deeper nesting happening. So it gives you like

[19:24] nesting happening. So it gives you like nesting happening. So it gives you like just some reference point into different just some reference point into different just some reference point into different types of patterns that are in like best types of patterns that are in like best types of patterns that are in like best in class software. And it's something in class software. And it's something in class software. And it's something that we use for doing competitive that we use for doing competitive that we use for doing competitive analysis maybe if we were looking at analysis maybe if we were looking at analysis maybe if we were looking at certain competitors or if we just want certain competitors or if we just want certain competitors or if we just want to look at specific patterns to to add to look at specific patterns to to add to look at specific patterns to to add or to get inspiration from. And I think or to get inspiration from. And I think or to get inspiration from. And I think it's also important to know like when to it's also important to know like when to it's also important to know like when to deviate. You can look at these things deviate. You can look at these things deviate. You can look at these things and say, "I think that works well here and say, "I think that works well here and say, "I think that works well here in this context." But if I like bring in this context." But if I like bring in this context." But if I like bring this in Webflow for example, I don't this in Webflow for example, I don't this in Webflow for example, I don't know if that it works well here because know if that it works well here because know if that it works well here because we have all these other like factors and we have all these other like factors and we have all these other like factors and variables that are included. So it it it variables that are included. So it it it variables that are included. So it it it helps as like a jumping off point for

[19:54] helps as like a jumping off point for helps as like a jumping off point for getting inspiration getting inspiration getting inspiration and also just ways to jump-start your and also just ways to jump-start your and also just ways to jump-start your thinking so versus starting from like a thinking so versus starting from like a thinking so versus starting from like a blank canvas. blank canvas. blank canvas. I think the addition of sites has been I think the addition of sites has been I think the addition of sites has been like our apps applications on both iOS like our apps applications on both iOS like our apps applications on both iOS and web. I think this is the product and web. I think this is the product and web. I think this is the product designer just having a repository and designer just having a repository and designer just having a repository and place to look at all these different place to look at all these different place to look at all these different patterns and be able to study them and patterns and be able to study them and patterns and be able to study them and understand what makes good design. I understand what makes good design. I understand what makes good design. I think this has been like really helpful. think this has been like really helpful. think this has been like really helpful. At least earlier in my career I started At least earlier in my career I started At least earlier in my career I started using Mobbin a long time ago. I remember using Mobbin a long time ago. I remember using Mobbin a long time ago. I remember seeing sites. I used to do websites as seeing sites. I used to do websites as seeing sites. I used to do websites as well for freelance and I used to well for freelance and I used to well for freelance and I used to reference this a lot but now in my

[20:25] reference this a lot but now in my reference this a lot but now in my professional working at a company using professional working at a company using professional working at a company using application references and looking at application references and looking at application references and looking at these different patterns has definitely these different patterns has definitely these different patterns has definitely been helpful in my process. Let's say you're designing for dark mode Let's say you're designing for dark mode or any kind of new pattern, where do you or any kind of new pattern, where do you or any kind of new pattern, where do you go for design inspiration? So, using a go for design inspiration? So, using a go for design inspiration? So, using a tool like Mobbin, it's looking at dark tool like Mobbin, it's looking at dark tool like Mobbin, it's looking at dark mode in particular. Let's look at some mode in particular. Let's look at some mode in particular. Let's look at some dark mode examples. dark mode examples. dark mode examples. The way that a lot of apps manage dark The way that a lot of apps manage dark The way that a lot of apps manage dark mode to make it look really good is they

[20:56] mode to make it look really good is they mode to make it look really good is they actually make their background a darker actually make their background a darker actually make their background a darker color and then they put lighter cards. color and then they put lighter cards. color and then they put lighter cards. And this is much easier on the eyes. And this is much easier on the eyes. And this is much easier on the eyes. Like it's not just like this black abyss Like it's not just like this black abyss Like it's not just like this black abyss that you're staring into. And so and and that you're staring into. And so and and that you're staring into. And so and and a really good example like for example a really good example like for example a really good example like for example let's let's let's let's look at Nextdoor. If I go to let's look at Nextdoor. If I go to let's look at Nextdoor. If I go to Nextdoor, you'll see Nextdoor, you'll see Nextdoor, you'll see their light mode uses a gray background their light mode uses a gray background their light mode uses a gray background and white cards. So, this is a really and white cards. So, this is a really and white cards. So, this is a really common pattern and it's it's really common pattern and it's it's really common pattern and it's it's really helpful to like it's super important to

[21:26] helpful to like it's super important to helpful to like it's super important to look at other apps when you're thinking look at other apps when you're thinking look at other apps when you're thinking about things like dark mode and light about things like dark mode and light about things like dark mode and light mode because the natural inclination mode because the natural inclination mode because the natural inclination might be to say might be to say might be to say "Wait, but black and white have the most "Wait, but black and white have the most "Wait, but black and white have the most contrast. So, wouldn't we make the cards contrast. So, wouldn't we make the cards contrast. So, wouldn't we make the cards black and the background gray?" But like black and the background gray?" But like black and the background gray?" But like it as you see, that's not what users are it as you see, that's not what users are it as you see, that's not what users are used to looking at. Users are used to used to looking at. Users are used to used to looking at. Users are used to seeing black backgrounds and gray cards. seeing black backgrounds and gray cards. seeing black backgrounds and gray cards. Like and so Like and so Like and so that's sort of where we started was that's sort of where we started was that's sort of where we started was looking at different apps. looking at different apps. looking at different apps. Hey, this is Jay. It means the world to Hey, this is Jay. It means the world to Hey, this is Jay. It means the world to me that you watched this video. If you

[21:58] me that you watched this video. If you me that you watched this video. If you want to unlock the AI design and grow to want to unlock the AI design and grow to want to unlock the AI design and grow to design interviews with designers at some design interviews with designers at some design interviews with designers at some of the top companies in the world, then of the top companies in the world, then of the top companies in the world, then head on over to sneak peek.design head on over to sneak peek.design head on over to sneak peek.design and subscribe to the newsletter.
---
Generated by https://youtube-transcript.ai — free YouTube transcript & summary extractor.
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=aY2dMCimD9A
Beta
0 / 10
used queries
1