# Transcript: Ramp's AI Design Process

Source video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mH5qIPx47jw
Language: en (auto-generated) · Duration: 1:01:59 · Words: 28800
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=mH5qIPx47jw

## Transcript
[0:02] So George, can you show us at a high So George, can you show us at a high level from designing to handoff? What level from designing to handoff? What level from designing to handoff? What does your role process look like using does your role process look like using does your role process look like using AI tools? AI tools? AI tools? &gt;&gt; Instead of starting with a wireframe, I &gt;&gt; Instead of starting with a wireframe, I &gt;&gt; Instead of starting with a wireframe, I start with a prototype. Really, that start with a prototype. Really, that start with a prototype. Really, that starts with making a prototype on magic starts with making a prototype on magic starts with making a prototype on magic patterns. And just a bit of background, patterns. And just a bit of background, patterns. And just a bit of background, ramp is a spend management company. And ramp is a spend management company. And ramp is a spend management company. And we are building the operating system for we are building the operating system for we are building the operating system for finance teams. So, I started if I go all finance teams. So, I started if I go all finance teams. So, I started if I go all the way back up to this prompt, started the way back up to this prompt, started the way back up to this prompt, started with this really long prompt, but I just

[0:34] with this really long prompt, but I just with this really long prompt, but I just talked into the mic. Easiest way to do talked into the mic. Easiest way to do talked into the mic. Easiest way to do this is to just show you like I'm just this is to just show you like I'm just this is to just show you like I'm just going to input going to input going to input $10,000. [music] $10,000. [music] $10,000. [music] I'm going to move it from my Chase I'm going to move it from my Chase I'm going to move it from my Chase savings account to my RAM [music] savings account to my RAM [music] savings account to my RAM [music] business account. business account. business account. And this transfer method got And this transfer method got And this transfer method got automatically populated. automatically populated. automatically populated. But I'm going to increase that to But I'm going to increase that to But I'm going to increase that to 10 million 10 million 10 million up to 100 million. And now it's wire. So up to 100 million. And now it's wire. So up to 100 million. And now it's wire. So I wanted a smart form, right, that like

[1:05] I wanted a smart form, right, that like I wanted a smart form, right, that like detects the amount, detects the amount, detects the amount, makes a call to the back end to see what makes a call to the back end to see what makes a call to the back end to see what the fastest available payment method is, the fastest available payment method is, the fastest available payment method is, and then automatically selects that in and then automatically selects that in and then automatically selects that in the form for you. the form for you. the form for you. So a prototype like this in Figma would So a prototype like this in Figma would So a prototype like this in Figma would have taken a lot of work and then also have taken a lot of work and then also have taken a lot of work and then also maybe like five different prototype maybe like five different prototype maybe like five different prototype states like if you open the prototype states like if you open the prototype states like if you open the prototype manager in Figma, you know, you have to manager in Figma, you know, you have to manager in Figma, you know, you have to like different starting points is what like different starting points is what like different starting points is what they're called. Here you kind of get

[1:35] they're called. Here you kind of get they're called. Here you kind of get that for free and then I shared it in that for free and then I shared it in that for free and then I shared it in five. You can tell that like there's no five. You can tell that like there's no five. You can tell that like there's no designs included here and at the end of designs included here and at the end of designs included here and at the end of the discussion there's no designs. I the discussion there's no designs. I the discussion there's no designs. I want to pause right here. This is the want to pause right here. This is the want to pause right here. This is the new era for design crits. I feel like new era for design crits. I feel like new era for design crits. I feel like the old way was everybody gets on a the old way was everybody gets on a the old way was everybody gets on a call, you share the Figma prototype or call, you share the Figma prototype or call, you share the Figma prototype or Figma designs, you screen share them, Figma designs, you screen share them, Figma designs, you screen share them, somebody's taking notes and people are somebody's taking notes and people are somebody's taking notes and people are giving live feedback. But here, this is giving live feedback. But here, this is giving live feedback. But here, this is all async and it's all using VIP coded

[2:05] all async and it's all using VIP coded all async and it's all using VIP coded prototypes. Yep. At RAMP we do a lot of Hey folks this is Jay and welcome to Hey folks this is Jay and welcome to sneak peek and today with me I have sneak peek and today with me I have sneak peek and today with me I have George who is a product designer on RAM George who is a product designer on RAM George who is a product designer on RAM and he's going to show us how ramp uses and he's going to show us how ramp uses and he's going to show us how ramp uses AI as part of the design process. George AI as part of the design process. George AI as part of the design process. George super stoked to have you on sneak peek super stoked to have you on sneak peek super stoked to have you on sneak peek &gt;&gt; Jay this is one of my favorite topics so &gt;&gt; Jay this is one of my favorite topics so &gt;&gt; Jay this is one of my favorite topics so I'm excited to be here. I'm excited to be here. I'm excited to be here. &gt;&gt; Let me ask you this. When a project &gt;&gt; Let me ask you this. When a project &gt;&gt; Let me ask you this. When a project comes in and you're thinking of creating

[2:36] comes in and you're thinking of creating comes in and you're thinking of creating some quick concepts or just some design some quick concepts or just some design some quick concepts or just some design ideas, do you like go into Figma and do ideas, do you like go into Figma and do ideas, do you like go into Figma and do some design explorations or you use an some design explorations or you use an some design explorations or you use an AI tool to create some design mockups? AI tool to create some design mockups? AI tool to create some design mockups? &gt;&gt; I think it depends on the type of &gt;&gt; I think it depends on the type of &gt;&gt; I think it depends on the type of deliverable being asked for. But more deliverable being asked for. But more deliverable being asked for. But more often than not in project, the often than not in project, the often than not in project, the deliverable relies on interaction. you deliverable relies on interaction. you deliverable relies on interaction. you need to click at least one thing. need to click at least one thing. need to click at least one thing. And so when you have to click at least

[3:06] And so when you have to click at least And so when you have to click at least one thing, a prototype is a is a much one thing, a prototype is a is a much one thing, a prototype is a is a much better way to give the the reviewer or better way to give the the reviewer or better way to give the the reviewer or the person requesting the feature or the person requesting the feature or the person requesting the feature or collaborators. It really helps them get collaborators. It really helps them get collaborators. It really helps them get a sense of what the end product's going a sense of what the end product's going a sense of what the end product's going to feel like if I go in and make an AI to feel like if I go in and make an AI to feel like if I go in and make an AI prototype versus delivering even a prototype versus delivering even a prototype versus delivering even a noodled Figma prototype. I think the noodled Figma prototype. I think the noodled Figma prototype. I think the fidelity fidelity fidelity you can't argue with one versus the you can't argue with one versus the you can't argue with one versus the other. So that's that's when I go to AI. other. So that's that's when I go to AI. other. So that's that's when I go to AI. Got it. So there's a million different

[3:38] Got it. So there's a million different Got it. So there's a million different AI design tools popping up right now. AI design tools popping up right now. AI design tools popping up right now. George, which is your go-to AI design George, which is your go-to AI design George, which is your go-to AI design tool when you're just trying to like tool when you're just trying to like tool when you're just trying to like come up with different concepts or come up with different concepts or come up with different concepts or prototypes to show stakeholders and get prototypes to show stakeholders and get prototypes to show stakeholders and get their initial feedback? their initial feedback? their initial feedback? Yeah, I've been vocal about magic Yeah, I've been vocal about magic Yeah, I've been vocal about magic patterns and it I think there a lot of patterns and it I think there a lot of patterns and it I think there a lot of them are approaching, them are approaching, them are approaching, you know, homeostasis v0ero is pretty you know, homeostasis v0ero is pretty you know, homeostasis v0ero is pretty competitive with magic patterns as well. competitive with magic patterns as well. competitive with magic patterns as well. But I like this tool because I can

[4:09] But I like this tool because I can But I like this tool because I can create components to make my prototypes create components to make my prototypes create components to make my prototypes look and feel like ramp. But that's kind look and feel like ramp. But that's kind look and feel like ramp. But that's kind of like a cherry on top. Really the meat of like a cherry on top. Really the meat of like a cherry on top. Really the meat and potatoes for me with magic patterns and potatoes for me with magic patterns and potatoes for me with magic patterns is speed and how is speed and how is speed and how less or how infrequently it errors. So less or how infrequently it errors. So less or how infrequently it errors. So it really doesn't try to write much it really doesn't try to write much it really doesn't try to write much backend code. It's very focused on a backend code. It's very focused on a backend code. It's very focused on a front-end experience. So I'm very very front-end experience. So I'm very very front-end experience. So I'm very very fast using this compared to vzero or fast using this compared to vzero or fast using this compared to vzero or replet. And confession I haven't used

[4:40] replet. And confession I haven't used replet. And confession I haven't used magic patterns before this interview on magic patterns before this interview on magic patterns before this interview on purpose. So, why don't you give me a purpose. So, why don't you give me a purpose. So, why don't you give me a demo and show me why this tool is so demo and show me why this tool is so demo and show me why this tool is so cool? Yeah, sure. Let's do that. Um, I'm cool? Yeah, sure. Let's do that. Um, I'm cool? Yeah, sure. Let's do that. Um, I'm going to take a going to take a going to take a design here, a Figma mock, and I'm not design here, a Figma mock, and I'm not design here, a Figma mock, and I'm not going to paste it in, okay? But I did going to paste it in, okay? But I did going to paste it in, okay? But I did come up with an idea. And so, what we're come up with an idea. And so, what we're come up with an idea. And so, what we're looking at is kind of like a bank looking at is kind of like a bank looking at is kind of like a bank account overview. We've got a couple account overview. We've got a couple account overview. We've got a couple accounts listed here, a bit of a setup

[5:10] accounts listed here, a bit of a setup accounts listed here, a bit of a setup guide. And so I'm just going to come guide. And so I'm just going to come guide. And so I'm just going to come into magic patterns into magic patterns into magic patterns or from scratch. So if you were to hand or from scratch. So if you were to hand or from scratch. So if you were to hand me a product spec, I wouldn't do it this me a product spec, I wouldn't do it this me a product spec, I wouldn't do it this way, but I would frontload a bunch of way, but I would frontload a bunch of way, but I would frontload a bunch of context. And so that's what I'm going to context. And so that's what I'm going to context. And so that's what I'm going to do with magic patterns today. And I'm do with magic patterns today. And I'm do with magic patterns today. And I'm too lazy to type it all out. So I'm just too lazy to type it all out. So I'm just too lazy to type it all out. So I'm just going to enter microphone mode and start going to enter microphone mode and start going to enter microphone mode and start talking. talking. talking. Let's build a overview page for a bank Let's build a overview page for a bank Let's build a overview page for a bank account feature within ramp. RAMP is new

[5:41] account feature within ramp. RAMP is new account feature within ramp. RAMP is new to the banking and investment space now to the banking and investment space now to the banking and investment space now offering something called a business offering something called a business offering something called a business account and an investment account. account and an investment account. account and an investment account. Obviously, investment account is a an Obviously, investment account is a an Obviously, investment account is a an investment product. The business account investment product. The business account investment product. The business account is for things like payroll and bills and is for things like payroll and bills and is for things like payroll and bills and receiving revenue. receiving revenue. receiving revenue. This homepage is going to have a section This homepage is going to have a section This homepage is going to have a section at the top called overview, another tab at the top called overview, another tab at the top called overview, another tab called automations, and another tab called automations, and another tab called automations, and another tab called documents for things like bank called documents for things like bank called documents for things like bank statements. In the overview section,

[6:11] statements. In the overview section, statements. In the overview section, let's just help help me understand how let's just help help me understand how let's just help help me understand how much money I have overall. Show me a much money I have overall. Show me a much money I have overall. Show me a list of my accounts and then show me a list of my accounts and then show me a list of my accounts and then show me a section ideally collapsible for approval section ideally collapsible for approval section ideally collapsible for approval for things that need review. Maybe for things that need review. Maybe for things that need review. Maybe that's like my treasurer wants to that's like my treasurer wants to that's like my treasurer wants to withdraw money from the investment withdraw money from the investment withdraw money from the investment account. Since I'm the owner of this account. Since I'm the owner of this account. Since I'm the owner of this account, I should be able to approve or account, I should be able to approve or account, I should be able to approve or reject that. Let's use a stacked hero reject that. Let's use a stacked hero reject that. Let's use a stacked hero graph below the total balance at the graph below the total balance at the graph below the total balance at the top. I don't have to type any of that.

[6:41] top. I don't have to type any of that. top. I don't have to type any of that. I'm just going to add in one thing and I'm just going to add in one thing and I'm just going to add in one thing and say at ramp treasury side of at ramp say at ramp treasury side of at ramp say at ramp treasury side of at ramp treasury account graph and at ramp treasury account graph and at ramp treasury account graph and at ramp treasury account row at ramp treasury approval account row at ramp treasury approval card. So these are components that I've card. So these are components that I've card. So these are components that I've built within magic patterns. They are built within magic patterns. They are built within magic patterns. They are they're like shad CNN versions of our they're like shad CNN versions of our they're like shad CNN versions of our actual design system. They're not

[7:12] actual design system. They're not actual design system. They're not onetoone. I don't want them to be onetoone. I don't want them to be onetoone. I don't want them to be onetoone. And then lastly, I'm only onetoone. And then lastly, I'm only onetoone. And then lastly, I'm only typing these cuz I have very low typing these cuz I have very low typing these cuz I have very low confidence that the speechtoext tool confidence that the speechtoext tool confidence that the speechtoext tool would have like accurately done this. So would have like accurately done this. So would have like accurately done this. So we'll hit next and see what happens. The we'll hit next and see what happens. The we'll hit next and see what happens. The way that I treat this tool Jay is giving way that I treat this tool Jay is giving way that I treat this tool Jay is giving my stakeholders the experience of using my stakeholders the experience of using my stakeholders the experience of using software. So as IC's and builders, we're software. So as IC's and builders, we're software. So as IC's and builders, we're the creators of software and the the creators of software and the the creators of software and the reviewers of software, especially with reviewers of software, especially with reviewers of software, especially with static Figma mocks. We really have to

[7:42] static Figma mocks. We really have to static Figma mocks. We really have to put on our like reviewer hat. And it put on our like reviewer hat. And it put on our like reviewer hat. And it could be hard to empathize with the could be hard to empathize with the could be hard to empathize with the customer. But the browser uses the customer. But the browser uses the customer. But the browser uses the substrate of the internet, which is substrate of the internet, which is substrate of the internet, which is code. And by working with that substrate code. And by working with that substrate code. And by working with that substrate as a designer, you get so much for free as a designer, you get so much for free as a designer, you get so much for free like upper states interaction. When you like upper states interaction. When you like upper states interaction. When you click something and nothing happens, click something and nothing happens, click something and nothing happens, that is feedback that you need to go that is feedback that you need to go that is feedback that you need to go down that rabbit hole. None of that down that rabbit hole. None of that down that rabbit hole. None of that exists in Figma. And also, none of that exists in Figma. And also, none of that exists in Figma. And also, none of that has anything to do with looking like our

[8:12] has anything to do with looking like our has anything to do with looking like our design system. This is actually ramp, design system. This is actually ramp, design system. This is actually ramp, right? So, it looks really nice. There's right? So, it looks really nice. There's right? So, it looks really nice. There's colors in here that you're not going to colors in here that you're not going to colors in here that you're not going to see. There's no rounded corners really. see. There's no rounded corners really. see. There's no rounded corners really. And you'll notice in magic patterns that And you'll notice in magic patterns that And you'll notice in magic patterns that the fidelity visually is not the same. the fidelity visually is not the same. the fidelity visually is not the same. But at this stage, it's not really what But at this stage, it's not really what But at this stage, it's not really what I'm evaluating uh or testing or or I'm evaluating uh or testing or or I'm evaluating uh or testing or or sending to my cross functional team. sending to my cross functional team. sending to my cross functional team. What I'm trying to send over is the What I'm trying to send over is the What I'm trying to send over is the experience of using this app and seeing experience of using this app and seeing experience of using this app and seeing what I want next. So this is what I came

[8:43] what I want next. So this is what I came what I want next. So this is what I came up with. We've got the ramp treasury up with. We've got the ramp treasury up with. We've got the ramp treasury side. We can see that there are some side. We can see that there are some side. We can see that there are some like pixel issues. there's this opening like pixel issues. there's this opening like pixel issues. there's this opening right next to $0. So you said that at right next to $0. So you said that at right next to $0. So you said that at this stage you don't care about the this stage you don't care about the this stage you don't care about the visual like fidelity or the pixel visual like fidelity or the pixel visual like fidelity or the pixel perfection. Why is that? Like a lot of perfection. Why is that? Like a lot of perfection. Why is that? Like a lot of people obsess over I want to get people obsess over I want to get people obsess over I want to get everything single thing right. I want to everything single thing right. I want to everything single thing right. I want to prompt it till every single pixel is prompt it till every single pixel is prompt it till every single pixel is right. Why don't you worry about it? right. Why don't you worry about it? right. Why don't you worry about it? &gt;&gt; It's a great question. I don't worry &gt;&gt; It's a great question. I don't worry &gt;&gt; It's a great question. I don't worry about it because there is another stage

[9:13] about it because there is another stage about it because there is another stage in the design process where we can worry in the design process where we can worry in the design process where we can worry about that kind of thing. It's like the about that kind of thing. It's like the about that kind of thing. It's like the application of the design system, the application of the design system, the application of the design system, the application of of visual language. But application of of visual language. But application of of visual language. But first and foremost, I'm trying to solve first and foremost, I'm trying to solve first and foremost, I'm trying to solve a separate problem which is like if I a separate problem which is like if I a separate problem which is like if I were to give this project a brief, maybe were to give this project a brief, maybe were to give this project a brief, maybe something that we can focus on for this something that we can focus on for this something that we can focus on for this recording is like how might a company recording is like how might a company recording is like how might a company with 200 bank accounts with 200 bank accounts with 200 bank accounts use ramp treasury or ramp banking?

[9:46] use ramp treasury or ramp banking? use ramp treasury or ramp banking? That's a very different experience than That's a very different experience than That's a very different experience than like a startup with one or two bank like a startup with one or two bank like a startup with one or two bank accounts. And so first I want to solve accounts. And so first I want to solve accounts. And so first I want to solve for the experience of navigating a table for the experience of navigating a table for the experience of navigating a table and filtering and sorting and how the UI and filtering and sorting and how the UI and filtering and sorting and how the UI might change as a result. But the visual might change as a result. But the visual might change as a result. But the visual stuff we can kind of just defer to stuff we can kind of just defer to stuff we can kind of just defer to later. At least that's been my later. At least that's been my later. At least that's been my experience. Got it. And then remind me experience. Got it. And then remind me experience. Got it. And then remind me once again, you said that V 0ero is also once again, you said that V 0ero is also once again, you said that V 0ero is also very competitive with magic patterns, very competitive with magic patterns, very competitive with magic patterns, but I think you mentioned if I'm not but I think you mentioned if I'm not but I think you mentioned if I'm not mistaken, you prefer magic patterns over

[10:18] mistaken, you prefer magic patterns over mistaken, you prefer magic patterns over V 0 because the error rate in magic V 0 because the error rate in magic V 0 because the error rate in magic patterns is significantly lower. patterns is significantly lower. patterns is significantly lower. Yes, my experience with Vzero, it might Yes, my experience with Vzero, it might Yes, my experience with Vzero, it might try to write an entire database or try to write an entire database or try to write an entire database or something seems like it might call for something seems like it might call for something seems like it might call for it and then you'll be dealing with a lot it and then you'll be dealing with a lot it and then you'll be dealing with a lot of backend errors that are, you know, of backend errors that are, you know, of backend errors that are, you know, pretty much for a quick front-end React pretty much for a quick front-end React pretty much for a quick front-end React project. project. project. &gt;&gt; Got it. &gt;&gt; Got it. &gt;&gt; Got it. &gt;&gt; I really like what this thing created. &gt;&gt; I really like what this thing created. &gt;&gt; I really like what this thing created. Like it's pretty functional. Are there Like it's pretty functional. Are there Like it's pretty functional. Are there approvals? approvals? approvals? &gt;&gt; So, let's let's ask it to change

[10:48] &gt;&gt; So, let's let's ask it to change &gt;&gt; So, let's let's ask it to change something here because this is obviously something here because this is obviously something here because this is obviously pretty bad. I think remove the pretty bad. I think remove the pretty bad. I think remove the treasury account graph entirely. Don't treasury account graph entirely. Don't treasury account graph entirely. Don't want a graph. Also, let's uh make it so want a graph. Also, let's uh make it so want a graph. Also, let's uh make it so that the business account is clickable. that the business account is clickable. that the business account is clickable. And you're going to take me to the And you're going to take me to the And you're going to take me to the business account detail screen, which business account detail screen, which business account detail screen, which looks like this. And uh quickly screenshot this. And then And uh quickly screenshot this. And then I went ahead and selected this thing, I went ahead and selected this thing, I went ahead and selected this thing, this tile. And so that's going to add

[11:19] this tile. And so that's going to add this tile. And so that's going to add context to my chat and see if it if it context to my chat and see if it if it context to my chat and see if it if it does it. does it. does it. &gt;&gt; Something I also noticed that's unique &gt;&gt; Something I also noticed that's unique &gt;&gt; Something I also noticed that's unique about your approach to AI is that you about your approach to AI is that you about your approach to AI is that you talk with it a lot. A lot of times I've talk with it a lot. A lot of times I've talk with it a lot. A lot of times I've seen people they just type it. They seen people they just type it. They seen people they just type it. They don't dictate or use the microphone. don't dictate or use the microphone. don't dictate or use the microphone. I don't know why though. Maybe it's a I don't know why though. Maybe it's a I don't know why though. Maybe it's a Yeah, it's definitely a personal take. Yeah, it's definitely a personal take. Yeah, it's definitely a personal take. If I was to examine it more meta, I kind If I was to examine it more meta, I kind If I was to examine it more meta, I kind of think that talking is of think that talking is of think that talking is non-deterministic non-deterministic non-deterministic and sometimes the words come out before and sometimes the words come out before and sometimes the words come out before you really know what you've said. In

[11:51] you really know what you've said. In you really know what you've said. In this case, the stakes are hol like it's this case, the stakes are hol like it's this case, the stakes are hol like it's not really a problem. If you're typing not really a problem. If you're typing not really a problem. If you're typing an important email, that could be bad. an important email, that could be bad. an important email, that could be bad. The nice thing about talking to an AI is The nice thing about talking to an AI is The nice thing about talking to an AI is over is you over is you over is you end up with a lot more creativity if end up with a lot more creativity if end up with a lot more creativity if something is non-deterministic. So if something is non-deterministic. So if something is non-deterministic. So if you go down a rabbit hole and you start you go down a rabbit hole and you start you go down a rabbit hole and you start ranting, you end up in a in a cool place ranting, you end up in a in a cool place ranting, you end up in a in a cool place you weren't expecting. But you know you weren't expecting. But you know you weren't expecting. But you know what? This actually doesn't look too what? This actually doesn't look too what? This actually doesn't look too bad. So it removed the graph. bad. So it removed the graph. bad. So it removed the graph. We're using pretty similar to like ramp

[12:22] We're using pretty similar to like ramp We're using pretty similar to like ramp colors. Obviously, you know, there's colors. Obviously, you know, there's colors. Obviously, you know, there's some spacing and whatever. I'm going to some spacing and whatever. I'm going to some spacing and whatever. I'm going to go ahead and click on this business go ahead and click on this business go ahead and click on this business account. And doesn't look that bad. account. And doesn't look that bad. account. And doesn't look that bad. We've got a history of transactions, a We've got a history of transactions, a We've got a history of transactions, a balance, buttons that imported balance, buttons that imported balance, buttons that imported correctly. correctly. correctly. &gt;&gt; So let me ask you this right here. &gt;&gt; So let me ask you this right here. &gt;&gt; So let me ask you this right here. There's a lot of like interactions that There's a lot of like interactions that There's a lot of like interactions that is created here like the first of all is created here like the first of all is created here like the first of all the tabs overview automations documents the tabs overview automations documents the tabs overview automations documents then there's the back navigation then there's the back navigation then there's the back navigation there's that whole graph that you've got there's that whole graph that you've got there's that whole graph that you've got did you specify all these interactions I

[12:52] did you specify all these interactions I did you specify all these interactions I didn't see you specify all these didn't see you specify all these didn't see you specify all these interactions in the prompt you gave to interactions in the prompt you gave to interactions in the prompt you gave to magic patterns so the question is did magic patterns so the question is did magic patterns so the question is did magic patterns just intuitively create magic patterns just intuitively create magic patterns just intuitively create all these interactions all these interactions all these interactions I definitely did not specify So, it did. I definitely did not specify So, it did. I definitely did not specify So, it did. I also want to give credit where I also want to give credit where I also want to give credit where credit's due because it didn't add credit's due because it didn't add credit's due because it didn't add interactions. It added like entry point interactions. It added like entry point interactions. It added like entry point to interactions, but like these things to interactions, but like these things to interactions, but like these things are not clickable, right? They they're are not clickable, right? They they're are not clickable, right? They they're just UI. Yeah. So, it didn't do the full

[13:22] just UI. Yeah. So, it didn't do the full just UI. Yeah. So, it didn't do the full job of extrapolating what should go on job of extrapolating what should go on job of extrapolating what should go on this next page. Like, I don't think it this next page. Like, I don't think it this next page. Like, I don't think it understands what should go under understands what should go under understands what should go under documents. Um, but let's make that documents. Um, but let's make that documents. Um, but let's make that happen. happen. happen. Let's create a table of different Let's create a table of different Let's create a table of different possible account documents. They're possible account documents. They're possible account documents. They're going to be mostly sorted going to be mostly sorted going to be mostly sorted chronologically. They'll have several chronologically. They'll have several chronologically. They'll have several different columns. One column will be different columns. One column will be different columns. One column will be called document name. One will be called called document name. One will be called called document name. One will be called statement date. One will be called statement date. One will be called statement date. One will be called account last four digits and another one

[13:52] account last four digits and another one account last four digits and another one will be called actions. So in the will be called actions. So in the will be called actions. So in the actions column, you'll put a a download actions column, you'll put a a download actions column, you'll put a a download button and then you just figure out what button and then you just figure out what button and then you just figure out what to do for the rest of the columns. But I to do for the rest of the columns. But I to do for the rest of the columns. But I want you to add filtering and grouping. want you to add filtering and grouping. want you to add filtering and grouping. Filtering obviously limits the number of Filtering obviously limits the number of Filtering obviously limits the number of things that go in the table. And things that go in the table. And things that go in the table. And grouping will change the ordering of grouping will change the ordering of grouping will change the ordering of things. So for example, if I want to things. So for example, if I want to things. So for example, if I want to group by uh bank statement, then I'll group by uh bank statement, then I'll group by uh bank statement, then I'll have a horizontal row in the table have a horizontal row in the table have a horizontal row in the table non-interactive called bank statement non-interactive called bank statement non-interactive called bank statement and then listing all of those below

[14:22] and then listing all of those below and then listing all of those below which then proceeds to the next grouping which then proceeds to the next grouping which then proceeds to the next grouping which might be like trade confirmation which might be like trade confirmation which might be like trade confirmation letter for investment products. uh but letter for investment products. uh but letter for investment products. uh but by default let's just do a table of by default let's just do a table of by default let's just do a table of chronological ordering with all possible chronological ordering with all possible chronological ordering with all possible account types and go from there. So I account types and go from there. So I account types and go from there. So I just want to like for all the designers just want to like for all the designers just want to like for all the designers in the in the audience who've designed a in the in the audience who've designed a in the in the audience who've designed a table you know how much of a of a pain table you know how much of a of a pain table you know how much of a of a pain in the ass it is and you'll design a in the ass it is and you'll design a in the ass it is and you'll design a table and then you'll go to resize it by table and then you'll go to resize it by table and then you'll go to resize it by one pixel and something breaks even if

[14:52] one pixel and something breaks even if one pixel and something breaks even if you're using auto layout. So, what's you're using auto layout. So, what's you're using auto layout. So, what's amazing about this is the browser will amazing about this is the browser will amazing about this is the browser will do all of that for free. That's what I do all of that for free. That's what I do all of that for free. That's what I love about the substrate of the internet love about the substrate of the internet love about the substrate of the internet is you don't need to instruct magic is you don't need to instruct magic is you don't need to instruct magic patterns to do this because the patterns to do this because the patterns to do this because the instructions are in the DNA of the instructions are in the DNA of the instructions are in the DNA of the browser. It's like they're genetically browser. It's like they're genetically browser. It's like they're genetically they just exist already. So, it's like they just exist already. So, it's like they just exist already. So, it's like your genes come with instructions to your genes come with instructions to your genes come with instructions to convert oxygen into ATP through convert oxygen into ATP through convert oxygen into ATP through mitochondria. This is like the same mitochondria. This is like the same mitochondria. This is like the same thing for the browser, but Figma has

[15:22] thing for the browser, but Figma has thing for the browser, but Figma has none of that. There's no genetic none of that. There's no genetic none of that. There's no genetic instructions to like make designs behave instructions to like make designs behave instructions to like make designs behave a specific way. It's so deterministic a specific way. It's so deterministic a specific way. It's so deterministic which means a lot of extra work for the which means a lot of extra work for the which means a lot of extra work for the designer. designer. designer. &gt;&gt; Makes sense. And actually, you know &gt;&gt; Makes sense. And actually, you know &gt;&gt; Makes sense. And actually, you know what? Just to prove that point, I think what? Just to prove that point, I think what? Just to prove that point, I think once it generates that table, let's try once it generates that table, let's try once it generates that table, let's try to resize it. to resize it. to resize it. Nice. Okay. Yeah. So, I'll open this in Nice. Okay. Yeah. So, I'll open this in Nice. Okay. Yeah. So, I'll open this in a new window. Go to the documents tab. a new window. Go to the documents tab. a new window. Go to the documents tab. All right. So, account documents All right. So, account documents All right. So, account documents account last four group by document account last four group by document account last four group by document type. Boom. Bank statement. No grouping.

[15:56] type. Boom. Bank statement. No grouping. type. Boom. Bank statement. No grouping. Group by month. Wow. And then, yeah, I'll try to resize Wow. And then, yeah, I'll try to resize it. I got to exit full screen, I think. it. I got to exit full screen, I think. it. I got to exit full screen, I think. Oh, wow. Oh, wow. Oh, wow. This is unbelievable. Like, literally, This is unbelievable. Like, literally, This is unbelievable. Like, literally, what is it? 5 minutes of just chatting what is it? 5 minutes of just chatting what is it? 5 minutes of just chatting with me and VIP coding, you created this with me and VIP coding, you created this with me and VIP coding, you created this whole documents tab. And I think if you whole documents tab. And I think if you whole documents tab. And I think if you were to share this with your were to share this with your were to share this with your stakeholder, it gives them a more stakeholder, it gives them a more stakeholder, it gives them a more profound experience of what the product profound experience of what the product profound experience of what the product you're imagining rather than

[16:28] you're imagining rather than you're imagining rather than some design prototype or some Figma link some design prototype or some Figma link some design prototype or some Figma link you could share with them. Yeah, that's you could share with them. Yeah, that's you could share with them. Yeah, that's the goal. So, well, I think one thing the goal. So, well, I think one thing the goal. So, well, I think one thing that is an opportunity for magic that is an opportunity for magic that is an opportunity for magic patterns, these prototyping tools of patterns, these prototyping tools of patterns, these prototyping tools of choice, is learning a little bit more choice, is learning a little bit more choice, is learning a little bit more about what collaboration and feedback about what collaboration and feedback about what collaboration and feedback looks like. So, you just pointed out looks like. So, you just pointed out looks like. So, you just pointed out that I'm going to share this with a that I'm going to share this with a that I'm going to share this with a stakeholder, and my goal is to make them stakeholder, and my goal is to make them stakeholder, and my goal is to make them feel like the customer, make them feel feel like the customer, make them feel feel like the customer, make them feel like a user of this software and not

[16:59] like a user of this software and not like a user of this software and not like a stakeholder at RAMP because like a stakeholder at RAMP because like a stakeholder at RAMP because ultimately that's who we're designing ultimately that's who we're designing ultimately that's who we're designing for. So maybe I want to filter by like for. So maybe I want to filter by like for. So maybe I want to filter by like tax form and this account, but the tax form and this account, but the tax form and this account, but the feedback that that stakeholder gives me feedback that that stakeholder gives me feedback that that stakeholder gives me is probably going to be on Slack and I'm is probably going to be on Slack and I'm is probably going to be on Slack and I'm going to have to go to Slack, read that, going to have to go to Slack, read that, going to have to go to Slack, read that, come back to this, and so the come back to this, and so the come back to this, and so the collaboration starts to become like collaboration starts to become like collaboration starts to become like multi-channel, but the the work is multi-channel, but the the work is multi-channel, but the the work is actually just happening on magic actually just happening on magic actually just happening on magic patterns. And so what I would like to patterns. And so what I would like to patterns. And so what I would like to see is a way to, you know, leave this

[17:31] see is a way to, you know, leave this see is a way to, you know, leave this open canvas, this prototype for people open canvas, this prototype for people open canvas, this prototype for people to click around, but then enter almost to click around, but then enter almost to click around, but then enter almost like a feedback mode where you can like a feedback mode where you can like a feedback mode where you can highlight something, add a comment just highlight something, add a comment just highlight something, add a comment just like in Figma, and I can like action like in Figma, and I can like action like in Figma, and I can like action that comment through the through the that comment through the through the that comment through the through the chat interface and make it a little bit chat interface and make it a little bit chat interface and make it a little bit more collaborative. more collaborative. more collaborative. Makes sense. And what percentage would Makes sense. And what percentage would Makes sense. And what percentage would you say you're targeting using magic you say you're targeting using magic you say you're targeting using magic patterns? Is it like you're targeting patterns? Is it like you're targeting patterns? Is it like you're targeting from 0 to 50%, 0 to 80% of the design from 0 to 50%, 0 to 80% of the design from 0 to 50%, 0 to 80% of the design when you're using magic patterns before

[18:02] when you're using magic patterns before when you're using magic patterns before maybe going to some other tool? What's maybe going to some other tool? What's maybe going to some other tool? What's the target you're hoping for? the target you're hoping for? the target you're hoping for? &gt;&gt; Yeah. 0 to 70ish. &gt;&gt; Yeah. 0 to 70ish. &gt;&gt; Yeah. 0 to 70ish. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; And then after that, what for the last &gt;&gt; And then after that, what for the last &gt;&gt; And then after that, what for the last finer details, what are you then using? finer details, what are you then using? finer details, what are you then using? Going back to Figma or some other tool? Going back to Figma or some other tool? Going back to Figma or some other tool? &gt;&gt; I I am going back to Figma. Most of the &gt;&gt; I I am going back to Figma. Most of the &gt;&gt; I I am going back to Figma. Most of the stuff that I'm working on is not a small stuff that I'm working on is not a small stuff that I'm working on is not a small front-end lift. So, I don't have the front-end lift. So, I don't have the front-end lift. So, I don't have the confidence to go into cursor and like confidence to go into cursor and like confidence to go into cursor and like redesign the entire architecture of the

[18:32] redesign the entire architecture of the redesign the entire architecture of the product. So, at that point, I'll go back product. So, at that point, I'll go back product. So, at that point, I'll go back into Figma and I'll create like maybe a into Figma and I'll create like maybe a into Figma and I'll create like maybe a good example would be to create good example would be to create good example would be to create just sections of this product at a high just sections of this product at a high just sections of this product at a high fidelity with different variations and fidelity with different variations and fidelity with different variations and all the different Yeah. like component all the different Yeah. like component all the different Yeah. like component types, grouping, maybe there's examples types, grouping, maybe there's examples types, grouping, maybe there's examples where like where like where like you have currencies displayed, no you have currencies displayed, no you have currencies displayed, no currencies displayed, empty states, currencies displayed, empty states, currencies displayed, empty states, stuff like that. And then this will stuff like that. And then this will stuff like that. And then this will represent the like the the red line or

[19:03] represent the like the the red line or represent the like the the red line or the source of truth for for handoff. But the source of truth for for handoff. But the source of truth for for handoff. But I'll usually still include a link to I'll usually still include a link to I'll usually still include a link to this prototype for for interaction this prototype for for interaction this prototype for for interaction design. design. design. &gt;&gt; Where would you include a link to this? &gt;&gt; Where would you include a link to this? &gt;&gt; Where would you include a link to this? In the handoff, where do you put the In the handoff, where do you put the In the handoff, where do you put the link to this magic patterns prototype? link to this magic patterns prototype? link to this magic patterns prototype? I'll usually just put it like right in I'll usually just put it like right in I'll usually just put it like right in another section right here. In this another section right here. In this another section right here. In this case, people had clicked on that link at case, people had clicked on that link at case, people had clicked on that link at Nauseium, so I didn't include it, but Nauseium, so I didn't include it, but Nauseium, so I didn't include it, but &gt;&gt; Okay, got it. So, essentially like &gt;&gt; Okay, got it. So, essentially like &gt;&gt; Okay, got it. So, essentially like you're using magic patterns to get to you're using magic patterns to get to you're using magic patterns to get to the 70% of the design, share the

[19:34] the 70% of the design, share the the 70% of the design, share the prototype with the stakeholders, get prototype with the stakeholders, get prototype with the stakeholders, get their alignment. Once the alignment's their alignment. Once the alignment's their alignment. Once the alignment's there, then you go back into Figma, there, then you go back into Figma, there, then you go back into Figma, create the different use cases, then do create the different use cases, then do create the different use cases, then do the handoff using Figma, which is a more the handoff using Figma, which is a more the handoff using Figma, which is a more traditional way. Got it. Yeah, exactly. traditional way. Got it. Yeah, exactly. traditional way. Got it. Yeah, exactly. So, George, So, George, So, George, can you show us at a high level from can you show us at a high level from can you show us at a high level from designing to handoff, what does your designing to handoff, what does your designing to handoff, what does your role process look like using AI tools? role process look like using AI tools? role process look like using AI tools? Beautiful. So, u instead of starting

[20:04] Beautiful. So, u instead of starting Beautiful. So, u instead of starting with a wireframe, I start with a with a wireframe, I start with a with a wireframe, I start with a prototype. If I told you I was going to prototype. If I told you I was going to prototype. If I told you I was going to make you a taco, I would rather make you make you a taco, I would rather make you make you a taco, I would rather make you a taco than just show you a picture of a a taco than just show you a picture of a a taco than just show you a picture of a taco. So really that starts with making taco. So really that starts with making taco. So really that starts with making a prototype on magic patterns. I have a prototype on magic patterns. I have a prototype on magic patterns. I have one great example here that will outline one great example here that will outline one great example here that will outline the process. the process. the process. And just a bit of background, RAMP is a And just a bit of background, RAMP is a And just a bit of background, RAMP is a spend management company and we are spend management company and we are spend management company and we are building the operating system for

[20:34] building the operating system for building the operating system for finance teams. Part of that is something finance teams. Part of that is something finance teams. Part of that is something called Treasury, which is a business called Treasury, which is a business called Treasury, which is a business account where you store cash, make account where you store cash, make account where you store cash, make payroll, and an investment account where payroll, and an investment account where payroll, and an investment account where you can store your excess cash and earn you can store your excess cash and earn you can store your excess cash and earn earn yield on funds you aren't using earn yield on funds you aren't using earn yield on funds you aren't using right away. We noticed and this is like right away. We noticed and this is like right away. We noticed and this is like in QA this is our sandbox environment in QA this is our sandbox environment in QA this is our sandbox environment that there's just like one way to get that there's just like one way to get that there's just like one way to get money into RAT which is like if you've money into RAT which is like if you've money into RAT which is like if you've used Robin Hood it just you can link used Robin Hood it just you can link used Robin Hood it just you can link your checking account and Robin Hood

[21:04] your checking account and Robin Hood your checking account and Robin Hood will like do an a debit from whatever will like do an a debit from whatever will like do an a debit from whatever account you link. It's kind of the same account you link. It's kind of the same account you link. It's kind of the same thing here. You link this checking thing here. You link this checking thing here. You link this checking account and you transfer money into account and you transfer money into account and you transfer money into Rant. But there's actually so many ways Rant. But there's actually so many ways Rant. But there's actually so many ways to move money. There's wires. There's to move money. There's wires. There's to move money. There's wires. There's something called real-time payments. You something called real-time payments. You something called real-time payments. You could go into your checking account and could go into your checking account and could go into your checking account and like send money to Robin Hood. So, what like send money to Robin Hood. So, what like send money to Robin Hood. So, what we wanted to build was a more robust way we wanted to build was a more robust way we wanted to build was a more robust way of getting money into RAMP. So, I of getting money into RAMP. So, I of getting money into RAMP. So, I started, if I go all the way back up to started, if I go all the way back up to started, if I go all the way back up to this prompt,

[21:34] this prompt, this prompt, started with this really long prompt, started with this really long prompt, started with this really long prompt, but I just talked into the mic. So just but I just talked into the mic. So just but I just talked into the mic. So just at a high level like I want this at a high level like I want this at a high level like I want this transfer funds flow to obviously have an transfer funds flow to obviously have an transfer funds flow to obviously have an amount field and then obviously I'm amount field and then obviously I'm amount field and then obviously I'm moving money from one place to another moving money from one place to another moving money from one place to another place place place and the new addition was this thing and the new addition was this thing and the new addition was this thing called the transfer method. So, we called the transfer method. So, we called the transfer method. So, we didn't have a transfer method on RAM, didn't have a transfer method on RAM, didn't have a transfer method on RAM, but what it would do is help people get but what it would do is help people get but what it would do is help people get money to where they want faster, but

[22:06] money to where they want faster, but money to where they want faster, but like with most things, fintech, there's like with most things, fintech, there's like with most things, fintech, there's like regulations and limits. Easiest way like regulations and limits. Easiest way like regulations and limits. Easiest way to do this is to just show you like I'm to do this is to just show you like I'm to do this is to just show you like I'm just going to input just going to input just going to input $10,000. $10,000. $10,000. I'm going to move it from my Chase I'm going to move it from my Chase I'm going to move it from my Chase savings account to my ramp business savings account to my ramp business savings account to my ramp business account. account. account. And this transfer method got And this transfer method got And this transfer method got automatically populated. automatically populated. automatically populated. But I'm going to increase that to But I'm going to increase that to But I'm going to increase that to 10 million 10 million 10 million up to 100 million and now it's wire up to 100 million and now it's wire up to 100 million and now it's wire because the limit for realtime payment

[22:38] because the limit for realtime payment because the limit for realtime payment is 10 mil. So I wanted a smart form is 10 mil. So I wanted a smart form is 10 mil. So I wanted a smart form right that like detects the amount, right that like detects the amount, right that like detects the amount, makes a call to the backend to see what makes a call to the backend to see what makes a call to the backend to see what the fastest available payment method is the fastest available payment method is the fastest available payment method is and then automatically selects that in and then automatically selects that in and then automatically selects that in the form for you. And then also wanted the form for you. And then also wanted the form for you. And then also wanted it to limit the number of options if I it to limit the number of options if I it to limit the number of options if I was moving money between ramp accounts. was moving money between ramp accounts. was moving money between ramp accounts. So it's like if it's moving from here to So it's like if it's moving from here to So it's like if it's moving from here to here, then the transfer method is here, then the transfer method is here, then the transfer method is instant and all the other options get instant and all the other options get instant and all the other options get deleted. So a prototype like this in

[23:09] deleted. So a prototype like this in deleted. So a prototype like this in Figma would have taken a lot of work and Figma would have taken a lot of work and Figma would have taken a lot of work and then also maybe like five different then also maybe like five different then also maybe like five different prototype states. It's like if you open prototype states. It's like if you open prototype states. It's like if you open the prototype manager in Figma, you the prototype manager in Figma, you the prototype manager in Figma, you know, you have to like know, you have to like know, you have to like you create different starting points is you create different starting points is you create different starting points is what they're called. Here you kind of what they're called. Here you kind of what they're called. Here you kind of get that for free. So let's just see get that for free. So let's just see get that for free. So let's just see what happened. I'm going to go back what happened. I'm going to go back what happened. I'm going to go back here. I have no idea what this version here. I have no idea what this version here. I have no idea what this version looked like, but I'm going to go back to looked like, but I'm going to go back to looked like, but I'm going to go back to the very first thing it created. the very first thing it created. the very first thing it created. So 10,000 from business account. No,

[23:41] So 10,000 from business account. No, So 10,000 from business account. No, from Chase savings to business account. from Chase savings to business account. from Chase savings to business account. The transfer method did not The transfer method did not The transfer method did not automatically select. There's also no automatically select. There's also no automatically select. There's also no metadata here, which was like kind of metadata here, which was like kind of metadata here, which was like kind of nice in the more recent version. nice in the more recent version. nice in the more recent version. But after I spent maybe like an hour But after I spent maybe like an hour But after I spent maybe like an hour getting it to a place where I thought getting it to a place where I thought getting it to a place where I thought the UX matched what I'd like to see in the UX matched what I'd like to see in the UX matched what I'd like to see in prod, I went and just open this in a new prod, I went and just open this in a new prod, I went and just open this in a new tab. Copy this link.

[24:11] tab. Copy this link. tab. Copy this link. This has sharing settings so that anyone This has sharing settings so that anyone This has sharing settings so that anyone can can view it but you can password can can view it but you can password can can view it but you can password protect so that only specific people can protect so that only specific people can protect so that only specific people can can access this. And then I shared it in can access this. And then I shared it in can access this. And then I shared it in Slack. I shared two examples. There's um Slack. I shared two examples. There's um Slack. I shared two examples. There's um the smart form which I showed today and the smart form which I showed today and the smart form which I showed today and then more of a progressive disclosure then more of a progressive disclosure then more of a progressive disclosure where like okay how much is the amount where like okay how much is the amount where like okay how much is the amount next? Which accounts are you moving from next? Which accounts are you moving from next? Which accounts are you moving from next? next? next? I outlined that I have a bit of a I outlined that I have a bit of a I outlined that I have a bit of a priority and then asked people to just

[24:43] priority and then asked people to just priority and then asked people to just use the prototypes. You can tell that use the prototypes. You can tell that use the prototypes. You can tell that like there's no designs included here like there's no designs included here like there's no designs included here and at the end of the discussion there's and at the end of the discussion there's and at the end of the discussion there's no designs. I want to pause right here. no designs. I want to pause right here. no designs. I want to pause right here. This is the new era for design crits. This is the new era for design crits. This is the new era for design crits. feel like the old way was everybody gets feel like the old way was everybody gets feel like the old way was everybody gets on a call, you share the Figma prototype on a call, you share the Figma prototype on a call, you share the Figma prototype or Figma designs, you screen share them, or Figma designs, you screen share them, or Figma designs, you screen share them, somebody's taking notes and people are somebody's taking notes and people are somebody's taking notes and people are giving live feedback. But here, this is giving live feedback. But here, this is giving live feedback. But here, this is all async and it's all using vibe coded all async and it's all using vibe coded all async and it's all using vibe coded prototypes.

[25:13] prototypes. prototypes. Yeah, I think it's the era Yeah, I think it's the era Yeah, I think it's the era &gt;&gt; as well. And there's a lot of value to &gt;&gt; as well. And there's a lot of value to &gt;&gt; as well. And there's a lot of value to live crit, but at ramp we do a lot of live crit, but at ramp we do a lot of live crit, but at ramp we do a lot of asynchronous critique and gathering asynchronous critique and gathering asynchronous critique and gathering feedback. So, it helps me stay focused. feedback. So, it helps me stay focused. feedback. So, it helps me stay focused. It also helps people, I think, pay a It also helps people, I think, pay a It also helps people, I think, pay a little bit more attention to the little bit more attention to the little bit more attention to the prototype or the design and like take a prototype or the design and like take a prototype or the design and like take a bit more care. But I want to highlight bit more care. But I want to highlight bit more care. But I want to highlight one comment here. So, we've got Nico who one comment here. So, we've got Nico who one comment here. So, we've got Nico who wanted a mix of the two and then later

[25:44] wanted a mix of the two and then later wanted a mix of the two and then later said that ramp accounts and external said that ramp accounts and external said that ramp accounts and external accounts should be like split up in the accounts should be like split up in the accounts should be like split up in the menu. Um and I was like 100% we'll get menu. Um and I was like 100% we'll get menu. Um and I was like 100% we'll get to this in the craft portion. So what I to this in the craft portion. So what I to this in the craft portion. So what I meant by craft portion is meant by craft portion is meant by craft portion is the phase where after myself and my the phase where after myself and my the phase where after myself and my stakeholders have aligned that like this stakeholders have aligned that like this stakeholders have aligned that like this experience of clicking things makes the experience of clicking things makes the experience of clicking things makes the most sense and is fast. Then we'll go most sense and is fast. Then we'll go most sense and is fast. Then we'll go into Figma and we will redline specifics

[26:18] into Figma and we will redline specifics into Figma and we will redline specifics about how this thing works and use our about how this thing works and use our about how this thing works and use our design system apply it show things like design system apply it show things like design system apply it show things like upper states metadata um and go into a upper states metadata um and go into a upper states metadata um and go into a bit more detail here. So bit more detail here. So bit more detail here. So I took his feedback and you can see how I took his feedback and you can see how I took his feedback and you can see how we use this like we use this like we use this like external accounts divider in the drop external accounts divider in the drop external accounts divider in the drop down. Um doesn't look like Grant but it down. Um doesn't look like Grant but it down. Um doesn't look like Grant but it like meets the needs of what the

[26:48] like meets the needs of what the like meets the needs of what the stakeholder wanted and it's something stakeholder wanted and it's something stakeholder wanted and it's something that we have an exact replica of in our that we have an exact replica of in our that we have an exact replica of in our design system. So is getting added there design system. So is getting added there design system. So is getting added there as well. So question here do you see a as well. So question here do you see a as well. So question here do you see a future where maybe even the handoff future where maybe even the handoff future where maybe even the handoff stuff entirely happens in magic pattern. stuff entirely happens in magic pattern. stuff entirely happens in magic pattern. So let's say you created the entire So let's say you created the entire So let's say you created the entire components that you have in your design components that you have in your design components that you have in your design system for ramp pixel by pixel complete system for ramp pixel by pixel complete system for ramp pixel by pixel complete match in magic patterns so that you match in magic patterns so that you match in magic patterns so that you don't even have to come into Figma. Do don't even have to come into Figma. Do don't even have to come into Figma. Do you see that happening or do you see you see that happening or do you see you see that happening or do you see that no for handoff and pixel perfection

[27:21] that no for handoff and pixel perfection that no for handoff and pixel perfection we have to come to Figma for the handoff we have to come to Figma for the handoff we have to come to Figma for the handoff whoever solves that problem will be a whoever solves that problem will be a whoever solves that problem will be a very rich man or woman I don't think very rich man or woman I don't think very rich man or woman I don't think Figma is the ideal place to be doing Figma is the ideal place to be doing Figma is the ideal place to be doing handoff it's just kind of the best thing handoff it's just kind of the best thing handoff it's just kind of the best thing we have today and were I to invest in we have today and were I to invest in we have today and were I to invest in making you know onetoone components making you know onetoone components making you know onetoone components started there's Like this sidenav is started there's Like this sidenav is started there's Like this sidenav is pretty close. pretty close. pretty close. &gt;&gt; Yep. It looks very similar.

[27:52] &gt;&gt; Yep. It looks very similar. &gt;&gt; Yep. It looks very similar. &gt;&gt; Quite a bit more time. I think what we &gt;&gt; Quite a bit more time. I think what we &gt;&gt; Quite a bit more time. I think what we would need is would need is would need is I don't even know if an MCP is the right I don't even know if an MCP is the right I don't even know if an MCP is the right tool for the job. But tool for the job. But tool for the job. But &gt;&gt; yeah, I was going to ask you why do you &gt;&gt; yeah, I was going to ask you why do you &gt;&gt; yeah, I was going to ask you why do you not use Figma MCP for this with magic not use Figma MCP for this with magic not use Figma MCP for this with magic patterns? patterns? patterns? &gt;&gt; I don't know if it works with magic &gt;&gt; I don't know if it works with magic &gt;&gt; I don't know if it works with magic patterns. I I haven't investigated. patterns. I I haven't investigated. patterns. I I haven't investigated. Okay, that's a good question. Maybe Okay, that's a good question. Maybe Okay, that's a good question. Maybe maybe someone on my team or or someone maybe someone on my team or or someone maybe someone on my team or or someone in the audience will will reach out and in the audience will will reach out and in the audience will will reach out and and call this out, but um I think it and call this out, but um I think it and call this out, but um I think it brings the the other point which is that

[28:25] brings the the other point which is that brings the the other point which is that the MCP would solve for the last 20%. the MCP would solve for the last 20%. the MCP would solve for the last 20%. But I think it would solve for it But I think it would solve for it But I think it would solve for it poorly. poorly. poorly. And I'm much more invested in using And I'm much more invested in using And I'm much more invested in using magic patterns for the first like 80% of magic patterns for the first like 80% of magic patterns for the first like 80% of a project life cycle. And I think it a project life cycle. And I think it a project life cycle. And I think it does that really really well. To chase does that really really well. To chase does that really really well. To chase the last 20% with an MCP would probably the last 20% with an MCP would probably the last 20% with an MCP would probably have me encountering more issues than it have me encountering more issues than it have me encountering more issues than it would save me time. Like for me to would save me time. Like for me to would save me time. Like for me to redline something in Figma is incredibly redline something in Figma is incredibly redline something in Figma is incredibly fast and well-maintained and clean. Um

[28:57] fast and well-maintained and clean. Um fast and well-maintained and clean. Um but like the second a token gets updated but like the second a token gets updated but like the second a token gets updated now you got to go back into magic now you got to go back into magic now you got to go back into magic patterns and fix it. It seems like the patterns and fix it. It seems like the patterns and fix it. It seems like the &gt;&gt; I mean that's just an assumption. Sorry. &gt;&gt; I mean that's just an assumption. Sorry. &gt;&gt; I mean that's just an assumption. Sorry. Um, Um, Um, &gt;&gt; yeah, &gt;&gt; yeah, &gt;&gt; yeah, &gt;&gt; it just seems like, you know, the juice &gt;&gt; it just seems like, you know, the juice &gt;&gt; it just seems like, you know, the juice is not worth the squeeze. is not worth the squeeze. is not worth the squeeze. &gt;&gt; Yes. Now, what I'm curious about is, so &gt;&gt; Yes. Now, what I'm curious about is, so &gt;&gt; Yes. Now, what I'm curious about is, so just to rec recap that whole thing. So, just to rec recap that whole thing. So, just to rec recap that whole thing. So, going back to the Figma thing, the going back to the Figma thing, the going back to the Figma thing, the handoff, the way you're doing it still handoff, the way you're doing it still handoff, the way you're doing it still is the traditional way where you've got is the traditional way where you've got is the traditional way where you've got all the states and oh, okay, you also all the states and oh, okay, you also all the states and oh, okay, you also got the prototype link to magic patterns got the prototype link to magic patterns got the prototype link to magic patterns there and you've got the final screens

[29:29] there and you've got the final screens there and you've got the final screens along with the different use cases. along with the different use cases. along with the different use cases. And then going back to Magic Patterns, And then going back to Magic Patterns, And then going back to Magic Patterns, how do you go about creating a new how do you go about creating a new how do you go about creating a new component in Magic Patterns? Is it like component in Magic Patterns? Is it like component in Magic Patterns? Is it like from scratch you have to wipe code it? from scratch you have to wipe code it? from scratch you have to wipe code it? Is there maybe an extension they have to Is there maybe an extension they have to Is there maybe an extension they have to speed up the process? speed up the process? speed up the process? Let's go Jay. All right. So, Let's go Jay. All right. So, Let's go Jay. All right. So, what's a good example? Okay. In what's a good example? Okay. In what's a good example? Okay. In Treasury, we're going to come in and Treasury, we're going to come in and Treasury, we're going to come in and tell all the audience this is this is tell all the audience this is this is tell all the audience this is this is fake information. Okay. So, these don't

[30:01] fake information. Okay. So, these don't fake information. Okay. So, these don't work, but we're going to go ahead and work, but we're going to go ahead and work, but we're going to go ahead and grab this header, grab this header, grab this header, and it's going to and it's going to and it's going to boom create a component. boom create a component. boom create a component. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; So, I'm going to go ahead and convert to &gt;&gt; So, I'm going to go ahead and convert to &gt;&gt; So, I'm going to go ahead and convert to a component. a component. a component. &gt;&gt; Yeah. To the treasury library. Open a &gt;&gt; Yeah. To the treasury library. Open a &gt;&gt; Yeah. To the treasury library. Open a new tab. It's just going to start new tab. It's just going to start new tab. It's just going to start writing code. writing code. writing code. &gt;&gt; This saved you. I'm trying to think of &gt;&gt; This saved you. I'm trying to think of &gt;&gt; This saved you. I'm trying to think of using any other AI tool, you would have using any other AI tool, you would have using any other AI tool, you would have to prompt it. You would to take a to prompt it. You would to take a to prompt it. You would to take a screenshot, give it reference. screenshot, give it reference. screenshot, give it reference. But here, oh my god, you just have to

[30:31] But here, oh my god, you just have to But here, oh my god, you just have to select it, Tim. Yeah. Out of curiosity, select it, Tim. Yeah. Out of curiosity, select it, Tim. Yeah. Out of curiosity, let's see what happens if I if I just let's see what happens if I if I just let's see what happens if I if I just ask it to ask it to ask it to rebuild that header. rebuild that header. rebuild that header. Bill, they'll pay with the buttons from Bill, they'll pay with the buttons from Bill, they'll pay with the buttons from scratch. scratch. scratch. Match as closely as possible. Match as closely as possible. Match as closely as possible. I think the one with the extension is I think the one with the extension is I think the one with the extension is going to be more closer. That's my going to be more closer. That's my going to be more closer. That's my guess. guess. guess. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, I think so, too. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, I think so, too. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, I think so, too. All right, we'll pit them side by side

[31:01] All right, we'll pit them side by side All right, we'll pit them side by side and see what happens. One thing to call out with the the One thing to call out with the the Chrome extension is that it is not that Chrome extension is that it is not that Chrome extension is that it is not that fast. I think it depends on the fast. I think it depends on the fast. I think it depends on the complexity of the design system. Like complexity of the design system. Like complexity of the design system. Like ours uses an atomic design framework. So ours uses an atomic design framework. So ours uses an atomic design framework. So there's a lot of nested components here. there's a lot of nested components here. there's a lot of nested components here. This group is a set and then each This group is a set and then each This group is a set and then each individual button is a set and then individual button is a set and then individual button is a set and then that. So we'll see what finished first.

[31:31] that. So we'll see what finished first. that. So we'll see what finished first. Okay, the Chrome extension finished Okay, the Chrome extension finished Okay, the Chrome extension finished first. Okay, let's add 32 pixels top and first. Okay, let's add 32 pixels top and first. Okay, let's add 32 pixels top and bottom bottom bottom padding for more white space. And then the other one finished. And then the other one finished. Okay, so this is the other one. First of Okay, so this is the other one. First of Okay, so this is the other one. First of all, it didn't only recreate the header. all, it didn't only recreate the header. all, it didn't only recreate the header. It also went and did the tabs in the It also went and did the tabs in the It also went and did the tabs in the entire table. The type face is quite entire table. The type face is quite entire table. The type face is quite different. The color is wrong. The different. The color is wrong. The different. The color is wrong. The corners are rounded. The location of the

[32:02] corners are rounded. The location of the corners are rounded. The location of the more menu is wrong. more menu is wrong. more menu is wrong. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; So, that Chrome extension worked really &gt;&gt; So, that Chrome extension worked really &gt;&gt; So, that Chrome extension worked really well. well. well. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Wow. So, Chrome extension is the way to go. So, Chrome extension is the way to go. So, Chrome extension is the way to go. &gt;&gt; Oh, that looks way better now. So, if I &gt;&gt; Oh, that looks way better now. So, if I &gt;&gt; Oh, that looks way better now. So, if I just go side by side here and Okay, just go side by side here and Okay, just go side by side here and Okay, there we go. So, there we go. So, there we go. So, it's pretty damn good. it's pretty damn good. it's pretty damn good. &gt;&gt; Yep. Yep. It's very close to the real &gt;&gt; Yep. Yep. It's very close to the real &gt;&gt; Yep. Yep. It's very close to the real thing. Damn. Amazing. thing. Damn. Amazing. thing. Damn. Amazing. &gt;&gt; Oh, the final step here, um, which is

[32:32] &gt;&gt; Oh, the final step here, um, which is &gt;&gt; Oh, the final step here, um, which is just publishing this component. So, once just publishing this component. So, once just publishing this component. So, once I do that, it is just going to be I do that, it is just going to be I do that, it is just going to be available for use on any prototype that available for use on any prototype that available for use on any prototype that I use. So let's put the ramp I use. So let's put the ramp I use. So let's put the ramp treasury sidenav and rent treasury sidenav and rent treasury sidenav and rent treasury bill pay header together to form a page bill pay header together to form a page called upcoming bills.

[33:06] And what it should do is those two And what it should do is those two components exactly as they are without components exactly as they are without components exactly as they are without changes and just insert them so that changes and just insert them so that changes and just insert them so that anytime I use those components, they're anytime I use those components, they're anytime I use those components, they're the same. Uh unless I come in here, make the same. Uh unless I come in here, make the same. Uh unless I come in here, make changes, publish a new version of the changes, publish a new version of the changes, publish a new version of the component, and then that version will component, and then that version will component, and then that version will propagate to all instances and propagate to all instances and propagate to all instances and prototypes that are that are using it. prototypes that are that are using it. prototypes that are that are using it. All right, so All right, so All right, so this looks exactly like the component this looks exactly like the component this looks exactly like the component that it made. And then this is sidenav that it made. And then this is sidenav that it made. And then this is sidenav is the same as the component that I

[33:37] is the same as the component that I is the same as the component that I made. That's great. There's some, you made. That's great. There's some, you made. That's great. There's some, you know, minor inconsistencies like um know, minor inconsistencies like um know, minor inconsistencies like um these don't have rounded corners, but these don't have rounded corners, but these don't have rounded corners, but that's fine. We can we can do a couple that's fine. We can we can do a couple that's fine. We can we can do a couple of things here. So, magic patterns has of things here. So, magic patterns has of things here. So, magic patterns has things like suggested actions. You can things like suggested actions. You can things like suggested actions. You can also open it from this command menu and also open it from this command menu and also open it from this command menu and explore multiple variations or you can explore multiple variations or you can explore multiple variations or you can polish. You can tidy up your file by polish. You can tidy up your file by polish. You can tidy up your file by like deleting unused code. In this case, like deleting unused code. In this case, like deleting unused code. In this case, I'm just going to polish by saying keep I'm just going to polish by saying keep I'm just going to polish by saying keep all radi at zero and make sure

[34:09] all radi at zero and make sure all radi at zero and make sure using the same type face. Well, I don't using the same type face. Well, I don't using the same type face. Well, I don't think this is going to work, but think this is going to work, but think this is going to work, but that's the iPhone 16 breakpoint. Okay. that's the iPhone 16 breakpoint. Okay. that's the iPhone 16 breakpoint. Okay. See? All right. No more border erases. See? All right. No more border erases. See? All right. No more border erases. Tight ball looks consistent. So, that's Tight ball looks consistent. So, that's Tight ball looks consistent. So, that's how I go from, you know, live how I go from, you know, live how I go from, you know, live &gt;&gt; design from our sandbox into a prototype &gt;&gt; design from our sandbox into a prototype &gt;&gt; design from our sandbox into a prototype environment. environment. environment. &gt;&gt; This is amazing. So George, I have a &gt;&gt; This is amazing. So George, I have a &gt;&gt; This is amazing. So George, I have a question. You've shared a lot of these question. You've shared a lot of these question. You've shared a lot of these vibecoded prototypes with stakeholders vibecoded prototypes with stakeholders vibecoded prototypes with stakeholders and a lot of these stakeholders, product and a lot of these stakeholders, product and a lot of these stakeholders, product managers, engineers are still new to the

[34:39] managers, engineers are still new to the managers, engineers are still new to the whole AI space interacting with VIP whole AI space interacting with VIP whole AI space interacting with VIP coded prototypes. So what are some best coded prototypes. So what are some best coded prototypes. So what are some best practices that you would share with the practices that you would share with the practices that you would share with the audience? Yeah. So one of the best audience? Yeah. So one of the best audience? Yeah. So one of the best practices that I can share when when practices that I can share when when practices that I can share when when using prototypes to gather feedback is using prototypes to gather feedback is using prototypes to gather feedback is to try to simulate different customer to try to simulate different customer to try to simulate different customer environments. So environments. So environments. So designers will be so familiar with the designers will be so familiar with the designers will be so familiar with the term happy path. We love to share happy term happy path. We love to share happy term happy path. We love to share happy path prototypes or designs path prototypes or designs path prototypes or designs and tell stakeholders don't worry like

[35:10] and tell stakeholders don't worry like and tell stakeholders don't worry like edge cases have been considered. edge cases have been considered. edge cases have been considered. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um everyone has been through that. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um everyone has been through that. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um everyone has been through that. But one thing that prototypes do really But one thing that prototypes do really But one thing that prototypes do really well is once you've got that core use well is once you've got that core use well is once you've got that core use case, that happy path, you can very very case, that happy path, you can very very case, that happy path, you can very very quickly iterate into edge cases or quickly iterate into edge cases or quickly iterate into edge cases or unhappy paths. So I've got a good unhappy paths. So I've got a good unhappy paths. So I've got a good example here. And example here. And example here. And this this looks pretty bad. That's fine. this this looks pretty bad. That's fine. this this looks pretty bad. That's fine. But um obviously here's an interface. But um obviously here's an interface. But um obviously here's an interface. Here's a sidenav. There's like a Here's a sidenav. There's like a Here's a sidenav. There's like a functional graph. I'm not sure if you

[35:41] functional graph. I'm not sure if you functional graph. I'm not sure if you noticed, but there's something at the noticed, but there's something at the noticed, but there's something at the top called fixture tools. Devs will be top called fixture tools. Devs will be top called fixture tools. Devs will be familiar with this. Designers less so familiar with this. Designers less so familiar with this. Designers less so unless y'all are queuing a lot. But unless y'all are queuing a lot. But unless y'all are queuing a lot. But essentially what this fixture tool does essentially what this fixture tool does essentially what this fixture tool does is it lets you change the page. Okay, so is it lets you change the page. Okay, so is it lets you change the page. Okay, so here's a good example. There are three here's a good example. There are three here's a good example. There are three entities right now. They're called entities right now. They're called entities right now. They're called United States, Canada, and Mexico. And United States, Canada, and Mexico. And United States, Canada, and Mexico. And so each one has two accounts. I want to so each one has two accounts. I want to so each one has two accounts. I want to see what happens if we've got a see what happens if we've got a see what happens if we've got a multinational company on ramp treasury multinational company on ramp treasury multinational company on ramp treasury with like 40 entities. What happens to

[36:11] with like 40 entities. What happens to with like 40 entities. What happens to your page if you've got like 40 your page if you've got like 40 your page if you've got like 40 countries signed up for it? That's a countries signed up for it? That's a countries signed up for it? That's a classic chaos question. So, I'm just classic chaos question. So, I'm just classic chaos question. So, I'm just going to type whatever. I'll just do going to type whatever. I'll just do going to type whatever. I'll just do two. Okay. So, now what happened is it two. Okay. So, now what happened is it two. Okay. So, now what happened is it automatically transformed into a table automatically transformed into a table automatically transformed into a table instead of a list. And the prototype instead of a list. And the prototype instead of a list. And the prototype knew to start grouping these by entity. knew to start grouping these by entity. knew to start grouping these by entity. So, you've got US, Canada, Mexico, So, you've got US, Canada, Mexico, So, you've got US, Canada, Mexico, Brazil. And I set it so that it Brazil. And I set it so that it Brazil. And I set it so that it automatically chooses a country name and automatically chooses a country name and automatically chooses a country name and creates an entity. And then it creates an entity. And then it creates an entity. And then it automatically chooses the local currency

[36:41] automatically chooses the local currency automatically chooses the local currency of that country and displays the of that country and displays the of that country and displays the currency in a in a truncated format. So currency in a in a truncated format. So currency in a in a truncated format. So you can come in here and you can group you can come in here and you can group you can come in here and you can group by entity or you can group by currency by entity or you can group by currency by entity or you can group by currency and account type. And although these are and account type. And although these are and account type. And although these are not functional like they give the not functional like they give the not functional like they give the stakeholder an example. I'm going to stakeholder an example. I'm going to stakeholder an example. I'm going to start increasing the number of business start increasing the number of business start increasing the number of business accounts to like yeah a max of five. As accounts to like yeah a max of five. As accounts to like yeah a max of five. As I go up and down, you can see the total I go up and down, you can see the total I go up and down, you can see the total balance changing because presumably the balance changing because presumably the balance changing because presumably the more bank accounts you have, the more

[37:11] more bank accounts you have, the more more bank accounts you have, the more money you have overall. And now there's money you have overall. And now there's money you have overall. And now there's one, two, three, four, five bank one, two, three, four, five bank one, two, three, four, five bank accounts per entity. And the page gets accounts per entity. And the page gets accounts per entity. And the page gets extremely long. Items for approval. Uh, extremely long. Items for approval. Uh, extremely long. Items for approval. Uh, this one is not working for some reason, this one is not working for some reason, this one is not working for some reason, but this fixture tool helps you sim but this fixture tool helps you sim but this fixture tool helps you sim simulate unhappy paths. And I tend to simulate unhappy paths. And I tend to simulate unhappy paths. And I tend to include this in most of the designs that include this in most of the designs that include this in most of the designs that I go through. uh or the prototypes that I go through. uh or the prototypes that I go through. uh or the prototypes that I go through. And another good example I go through. And another good example I go through. And another good example is like phasing. So the changes are

[37:42] is like phasing. So the changes are is like phasing. So the changes are quite minor between phase one and phase quite minor between phase one and phase quite minor between phase one and phase 2. But 2. But 2. But this is another way to say, hey, the this is another way to say, hey, the this is another way to say, hey, the experience looks like this for alpha, experience looks like this for alpha, experience looks like this for alpha, the experience looks like this for beta, the experience looks like this for beta, the experience looks like this for beta, and this is what we're going to go to GA and this is what we're going to go to GA and this is what we're going to go to GA with. and stakeholders can understand with. and stakeholders can understand with. and stakeholders can understand like what the timeline looks like and like what the timeline looks like and like what the timeline looks like and what the pro product is going to look what the pro product is going to look what the pro product is going to look like at different stages in the the life like at different stages in the the life like at different stages in the the life cycle at RAMP we don't ship to GA like cycle at RAMP we don't ship to GA like cycle at RAMP we don't ship to GA like immediately we use a process called

[38:12] immediately we use a process called immediately we use a process called alpha beta GA just to reduce the blast alpha beta GA just to reduce the blast alpha beta GA just to reduce the blast radius so alpha will typically include radius so alpha will typically include radius so alpha will typically include like like like you know five to 20 friendly customers you know five to 20 friendly customers you know five to 20 friendly customers who know your product well and you'll who know your product well and you'll who know your product well and you'll email them, say, "Hey, we're working on email them, say, "Hey, we're working on email them, say, "Hey, we're working on a new feature. We think you're going to a new feature. We think you're going to a new feature. We think you're going to get a lot of use out of it." And then get a lot of use out of it." And then get a lot of use out of it." And then we'll use those as design partners. And we'll use those as design partners. And we'll use those as design partners. And if the test goes well and there's no big if the test goes well and there's no big if the test goes well and there's no big red flags, we'll move on to beta, which red flags, we'll move on to beta, which red flags, we'll move on to beta, which in this case is like phase two, and then

[38:42] in this case is like phase two, and then in this case is like phase two, and then we'll move on to GA, which is phase we'll move on to GA, which is phase we'll move on to GA, which is phase three. So I tend to include that in three. So I tend to include that in three. So I tend to include that in these prototypes because another thing these prototypes because another thing these prototypes because another thing that every designer will be familiar that every designer will be familiar that every designer will be familiar with is like oh well why don't we just with is like oh well why don't we just with is like oh well why don't we just do this additional feature now or we do this additional feature now or we do this additional feature now or we don't have time for that let's do it don't have time for that let's do it don't have time for that let's do it later. Those are really really valid later. Those are really really valid later. Those are really really valid points. It's like resourcing is a points. It's like resourcing is a points. It's like resourcing is a difficult problem to solve, but giving difficult problem to solve, but giving difficult problem to solve, but giving people a sense of like the trade-offs people a sense of like the trade-offs people a sense of like the trade-offs via a prototype can be a really

[39:12] via a prototype can be a really via a prototype can be a really effective way to effective way to effective way to manage stakeholders. manage stakeholders. manage stakeholders. &gt;&gt; Makes sense. George, my next question to &gt;&gt; Makes sense. George, my next question to &gt;&gt; Makes sense. George, my next question to you is how do you use AI to get close to you is how do you use AI to get close to you is how do you use AI to get close to the customer or even more, how do you the customer or even more, how do you the customer or even more, how do you use AI to figure out what is the next use AI to figure out what is the next use AI to figure out what is the next thing you should work on instead of thing you should work on instead of thing you should work on instead of relying on the PM to come and tell you, relying on the PM to come and tell you, relying on the PM to come and tell you, hey, can you fix this or can you create hey, can you fix this or can you create hey, can you fix this or can you create a design for this? a design for this? a design for this? Yeah, that's a great question. Okay, Yeah, that's a great question. Okay, Yeah, that's a great question. Okay, there is a tool called Log Rocket.

[39:43] there is a tool called Log Rocket. there is a tool called Log Rocket. Basically, Basically, Basically, Log Rocket records sessions. Log Rocket records sessions. Log Rocket records sessions. So, when people are ramp customers are So, when people are ramp customers are So, when people are ramp customers are clicking around ramp and they're getting clicking around ramp and they're getting clicking around ramp and they're getting frustrated, frustrated, frustrated, you can watch these sessions on Log you can watch these sessions on Log you can watch these sessions on Log Rocket. These are like live replays. So, Rocket. These are like live replays. So, Rocket. These are like live replays. So, I'll come into Log Rocket and I'll spend I'll come into Log Rocket and I'll spend I'll come into Log Rocket and I'll spend two or three hours a week, usually like two or three hours a week, usually like two or three hours a week, usually like the first thing that I do in the morning the first thing that I do in the morning the first thing that I do in the morning while I drink a coffee and come in here, while I drink a coffee and come in here, while I drink a coffee and come in here, just hit a save segment. So basically

[40:13] just hit a save segment. So basically just hit a save segment. So basically these videos contain a URL that is these videos contain a URL that is these videos contain a URL that is relevant to me like business accounts or relevant to me like business accounts or relevant to me like business accounts or investment accounts or treasury and then investment accounts or treasury and then investment accounts or treasury and then I'll just come through and and watch I'll just come through and and watch I'll just come through and and watch these videos and literally these videos and literally these videos and literally watch people use the thing that I've watch people use the thing that I've watch people use the thing that I've designed. I'll just watch them for an designed. I'll just watch them for an designed. I'll just watch them for an hour back to back. I'll watch them on on hour back to back. I'll watch them on on hour back to back. I'll watch them on on separate parts of RAM and anything like separate parts of RAM and anything like separate parts of RAM and anything like is obfiscated so it's blurred out. It's is obfiscated so it's blurred out. It's is obfiscated so it's blurred out. It's completely unavailable to to ramp completely unavailable to to ramp completely unavailable to to ramp employees. This is pretty interesting. I employees. This is pretty interesting. I employees. This is pretty interesting. I actually quite like starting my day like

[40:44] actually quite like starting my day like actually quite like starting my day like this. But our internal team built this. But our internal team built this. But our internal team built something called the voice of the something called the voice of the something called the voice of the customer analytics suite. And you can customer analytics suite. And you can customer analytics suite. And you can tell it was built by engineers cuz tell it was built by engineers cuz tell it was built by engineers cuz that's a terrible name. But I'm going to that's a terrible name. But I'm going to that's a terrible name. But I'm going to go ahead and come into log rocket go ahead and come into log rocket go ahead and come into log rocket sessions. While this is loading, it's sessions. While this is loading, it's sessions. While this is loading, it's going to ask me to define some filters. going to ask me to define some filters. going to ask me to define some filters. So I'm going to say clicked on a URL So I'm going to say clicked on a URL So I'm going to say clicked on a URL contains treasury. contains treasury. contains treasury. Clicked on text contains Clicked on text contains Clicked on text contains treasury,

[41:23] investment accounts, investment accounts, and that's it actually. Okay. Um Okay. Um and and yeah, so like find some and and yeah, so like find some and and yeah, so like find some rage clicks or points of frustration. rage clicks or points of frustration. rage clicks or points of frustration. What are users What are users What are users doing the most here?

[41:53] Finding relevant session. These are Finding relevant session. These are basically videos that match the criteria basically videos that match the criteria basically videos that match the criteria and instead of me watching all of them, and instead of me watching all of them, and instead of me watching all of them, it's going to ideally find things that it's going to ideally find things that it's going to ideally find things that contain my filters, summarize them, and contain my filters, summarize them, and contain my filters, summarize them, and generate an aggregated summary. Okay. generate an aggregated summary. Okay. generate an aggregated summary. Okay. So, while this is running, I'm going to So, while this is running, I'm going to So, while this is running, I'm going to try to also gather some context from try to also gather some context from try to also gather some context from notion. Find some research calls that

[42:23] let me understand frustrations let me understand frustrations with rent, treasury, with rent, treasury, with rent, treasury, business accounts, investment business accounts, investment business accounts, investment accounts, yield, etc. Oh, wow. So you basically start your day Oh, wow. So you basically start your day ask Notion AI these pain points or ask Notion AI these pain points or ask Notion AI these pain points or customer codes that talk about the pain customer codes that talk about the pain customer codes that talk about the pain points. Yeah. So here's a customer example uh Yeah. So here's a customer example uh customer feedback example transfer customer feedback example transfer customer feedback example transfer balance discrepancies. Going to go ahead balance discrepancies. Going to go ahead balance discrepancies. Going to go ahead and open this link.

[42:54] and open this link. and open this link. And we've got an example of inconsistent And we've got an example of inconsistent And we've got an example of inconsistent balances. This was submitted on balances. This was submitted on balances. This was submitted on September 29th and it's saying client September 29th and it's saying client September 29th and it's saying client has configured automations to move has configured automations to move has configured automations to move surplus funds from the operating account surplus funds from the operating account surplus funds from the operating account into the investment account. Transfers into the investment account. Transfers into the investment account. Transfers between these accounts are clearing on between these accounts are clearing on between these accounts are clearing on different dates and during the transfer different dates and during the transfer different dates and during the transfer period only one side of the transfer is period only one side of the transfer is period only one side of the transfer is reflected in the available balance which reflected in the available balance which reflected in the available balance which makes the displayed balance appear lower makes the displayed balance appear lower makes the displayed balance appear lower than it actually is. It's causing than it actually is. It's causing than it actually is. It's causing reconciliation issues. Client would like reconciliation issues. Client would like reconciliation issues. Client would like both accounts as balances to reflect both accounts as balances to reflect both accounts as balances to reflect transfers more consistently so that

[43:25] transfers more consistently so that transfers more consistently so that available balances are accurate during available balances are accurate during available balances are accurate during intransit periods. Okay, I think I intransit periods. Okay, I think I intransit periods. Okay, I think I understand. So if I go back to ramp over understand. So if I go back to ramp over understand. So if I go back to ramp over here, I think what they're saying is here, I think what they're saying is here, I think what they're saying is that this business account and that this business account and that this business account and investment account, the balances don't investment account, the balances don't investment account, the balances don't add up when you move money. So I'm going add up when you move money. So I'm going add up when you move money. So I'm going to go ahead and make this investment to go ahead and make this investment to go ahead and make this investment account work. account work. account work. brokerage account, state machine brokerage account, state machine brokerage account, state machine and restrictions, investment account. and restrictions, investment account. and restrictions, investment account. So, we have this like awesome QA tool

[43:57] So, we have this like awesome QA tool So, we have this like awesome QA tool that lets us basically simulate anything we want. basically simulate anything we want. Now, this account is open. So, I'm going Now, this account is open. So, I'm going Now, this account is open. So, I'm going to go ahead and move money into it. to go ahead and move money into it. to go ahead and move money into it. Wait, first let's figure out how much I Wait, first let's figure out how much I Wait, first let's figure out how much I have. It says I have 119K. have. It says I have 119K. have. It says I have 119K. If I understood the notion correctly, If I understood the notion correctly, If I understood the notion correctly, it says during the transit period only it says during the transit period only it says during the transit period only one side of the transfer is reflected in one side of the transfer is reflected in one side of the transfer is reflected in the available balance. the available balance. the available balance. So I'm assuming that if I move, let's

[44:29] So I'm assuming that if I move, let's So I'm assuming that if I move, let's just say 19,812, just say 19,812, just say 19,812, it's going to seem like that amount has it's going to seem like that amount has it's going to seem like that amount has disappeared. Okay, Okay, I can't do it today. It's going to auto I can't do it today. It's going to auto I can't do it today. It's going to auto invest in the next day. schedule the invest in the next day. schedule the invest in the next day. schedule the transfer. So, this says scheduled. Let's transfer. So, this says scheduled. Let's transfer. So, this says scheduled. Let's see if I can make this transfer state machine desired state transfer state machine desired state initiated.

[45:00] initiated. initiated. I need to grab I need to grab I need to grab this long code. All right. Well, I don't know how to All right. Well, I don't know how to make this initiate, but I'm going to try

[45:30] make this initiate, but I'm going to try make this initiate, but I'm going to try to solve the problem, which is that the to solve the problem, which is that the to solve the problem, which is that the balance is inconsistent. So, what we're balance is inconsistent. So, what we're balance is inconsistent. So, what we're going to do is open ramp inspect, which going to do is open ramp inspect, which going to do is open ramp inspect, which is like our very own version of cursor is like our very own version of cursor is like our very own version of cursor in the browser. And I'm going to enter a in the browser. And I'm going to enter a in the browser. And I'm going to enter a prompt. prompt. prompt. Highlight this account value and say Highlight this account value and say Highlight this account value and say add a string below account value that add a string below account value that add a string below account value that indicates indicates indicates ending deposits. ending deposits. ending deposits. Since account value only registers

[46:02] Since account value only registers Since account value only registers settled transactions, there is an issue settled transactions, there is an issue settled transactions, there is an issue that a customer experienced with money that a customer experienced with money that a customer experienced with money in transit not being correctly recorded. in transit not being correctly recorded. in transit not being correctly recorded. So, we need to store pending So, we need to store pending So, we need to store pending transactions in the back end and display transactions in the back end and display transactions in the back end and display it here anytime a transfer has not it here anytime a transfer has not it here anytime a transfer has not completely settled into the account. So, completely settled into the account. So, completely settled into the account. So, while it's doing that, what I'm curious while it's doing that, what I'm curious while it's doing that, what I'm curious to know is why did you not just go to to know is why did you not just go to to know is why did you not just go to the cursor the proper cursor website and the cursor the proper cursor website and the cursor the proper cursor website and then do all this rather than just using then do all this rather than just using then do all this rather than just using version of cursor in the browser right

[46:33] version of cursor in the browser right version of cursor in the browser right here? This is meant to lower the bar of here? This is meant to lower the bar of here? This is meant to lower the bar of entry for people that either don't have entry for people that either don't have entry for people that either don't have cursor set up on their machines or who cursor set up on their machines or who cursor set up on their machines or who don't yet know how to create a branch don't yet know how to create a branch don't yet know how to create a branch and use git. So yeah, I mean like even and use git. So yeah, I mean like even and use git. So yeah, I mean like even you you have to tell curser yarn start you you have to tell curser yarn start you you have to tell curser yarn start to run something locally or you have to to run something locally or you have to to run something locally or you have to update packages. You need to understand update packages. You need to understand update packages. You need to understand how to navigate to the right row. how to navigate to the right row. how to navigate to the right row. mostly meant for more non-technical mostly meant for more non-technical mostly meant for more non-technical people to get started and make changes

[47:03] people to get started and make changes people to get started and make changes in the front end. Yeah. So, it's asking in the front end. Yeah. So, it's asking in the front end. Yeah. So, it's asking me a couple questions. It says it's me a couple questions. It says it's me a couple questions. It says it's already implemented. When it pending already implemented. When it pending already implemented. When it pending deposits, it's going to say pending 100. deposits, it's going to say pending 100. deposits, it's going to say pending 100. So, like let's show it when it's also So, like let's show it when it's also So, like let's show it when it's also zero. So, it it finished. I asked it to zero. So, it it finished. I asked it to zero. So, it it finished. I asked it to do something. All I have to do is open do something. All I have to do is open do something. All I have to do is open the preview link. This is, you know, the preview link. This is, you know, the preview link. This is, you know, just like opening local host when you're just like opening local host when you're just like opening local host when you're in your ID of choice. So, I'm going to in your ID of choice. So, I'm going to in your ID of choice. So, I'm going to just sign in. And what it should do just sign in. And what it should do just sign in. And what it should do is, yep, now we've got a pending label

[47:33] is, yep, now we've got a pending label is, yep, now we've got a pending label in the investment account even when it's in the investment account even when it's in the investment account even when it's zero. So if I want to, I can just create zero. So if I want to, I can just create zero. So if I want to, I can just create a PR for this. a PR for this. a PR for this. Now look at the PR on GitHub. I'm going Now look at the PR on GitHub. I'm going Now look at the PR on GitHub. I'm going to archive this because my engineer will to archive this because my engineer will to archive this because my engineer will think I actually want to make this think I actually want to make this think I actually want to make this change. But the cool thing is that I change. But the cool thing is that I change. But the cool thing is that I didn't have to go into cursor at all and didn't have to go into cursor at all and didn't have to go into cursor at all and now I've got appending balance which the now I've got appending balance which the now I've got appending balance which the customer all they want to see is that customer all they want to see is that customer all they want to see is that something is reflected in the available something is reflected in the available something is reflected in the available balance and it looks like it's lower

[48:04] balance and it looks like it's lower balance and it looks like it's lower than it actually is. So they would like than it actually is. So they would like than it actually is. So they would like both accounts to reflect transfers more both accounts to reflect transfers more both accounts to reflect transfers more consistently so that available balances consistently so that available balances consistently so that available balances are accurate during intransit periods. are accurate during intransit periods. are accurate during intransit periods. So, what I would probably do is to So, what I would probably do is to So, what I would probably do is to contact this customer. contact this customer. contact this customer. Yeah. Send them a screenshot, send them Yeah. Send them a screenshot, send them Yeah. Send them a screenshot, send them a loom, and ask them if this would help a loom, and ask them if this would help a loom, and ask them if this would help with reconciliation. And I'm happy to with reconciliation. And I'm happy to with reconciliation. And I'm happy to just do that myself. Like, I don't need just do that myself. Like, I don't need just do that myself. Like, I don't need to ask the PM or the UXR team for to ask the PM or the UXR team for to ask the PM or the UXR team for permission. So, going back to that

[48:35] permission. So, going back to that permission. So, going back to that notion AI, how you're using it. What's notion AI, how you're using it. What's notion AI, how you're using it. What's mind-blowing to me, George, is that if mind-blowing to me, George, is that if mind-blowing to me, George, is that if you have some downtime, a lot of times you have some downtime, a lot of times you have some downtime, a lot of times designers complain that, oh, I don't designers complain that, oh, I don't designers complain that, oh, I don't know what to focus on next. I have a lot know what to focus on next. I have a lot know what to focus on next. I have a lot of downtime. The PMs are still figuring of downtime. The PMs are still figuring of downtime. The PMs are still figuring out the road map. What you can do here out the road map. What you can do here out the road map. What you can do here is literally use notion AI and be like, is literally use notion AI and be like, is literally use notion AI and be like, let me just go through all the customer let me just go through all the customer let me just go through all the customer complaints and stuff, find issues and complaints and stuff, find issues and complaints and stuff, find issues and directly start working on them because I directly start working on them because I directly start working on them because I have some downtime. have some downtime. have some downtime. &gt;&gt; Totally. anyone has, &gt;&gt; Totally. anyone has, &gt;&gt; Totally. anyone has, you know, not even the downtime, but the

[49:06] you know, not even the downtime, but the you know, not even the downtime, but the tools to make that happen. Now, I think tools to make that happen. Now, I think tools to make that happen. Now, I think the people who do really well at RAMP the people who do really well at RAMP the people who do really well at RAMP succeed because they're customer succeed because they're customer succeed because they're customer obsessed. And we definitely give you the obsessed. And we definitely give you the obsessed. And we definitely give you the tools to be customer obsessed. tools to be customer obsessed. tools to be customer obsessed. &gt;&gt; Wow. So, the UXR team does a really good &gt;&gt; Wow. So, the UXR team does a really good &gt;&gt; Wow. So, the UXR team does a really good job, it seems, of uploading all the job, it seems, of uploading all the job, it seems, of uploading all the customer interviews in Notion and then customer interviews in Notion and then customer interviews in Notion and then all the customer codes and everything in all the customer codes and everything in all the customer codes and everything in there. So, then you can just use Notion there. So, then you can just use Notion there. So, then you can just use Notion AI to find all those transcripts. Got AI to find all those transcripts. Got AI to find all those transcripts. Got it. Yeah. Everything's everything's it. Yeah. Everything's everything's it. Yeah. Everything's everything's automated. Even even where is my draft? automated. Even even where is my draft? automated. Even even where is my draft? I'll show you a draft that I'm working

[49:36] I'll show you a draft that I'm working I'll show you a draft that I'm working on. So in this UXR tool, basically when on. So in this UXR tool, basically when on. So in this UXR tool, basically when you are creating a research plan, one of you are creating a research plan, one of you are creating a research plan, one of the hardest parts is creating a useful the hardest parts is creating a useful the hardest parts is creating a useful research plan. Like not any question is research plan. Like not any question is research plan. Like not any question is a good question. There's this awesome a good question. There's this awesome a good question. There's this awesome book that I recommend to all designers book that I recommend to all designers book that I recommend to all designers called the mom test. called the mom test. called the mom test. The mom test. Okay. Mom test will be The mom test. Okay. Mom test will be The mom test. Okay. Mom test will be summarized so simply. The mom test goes summarized so simply. The mom test goes summarized so simply. The mom test goes like this. If you go to your mom with a like this. If you go to your mom with a like this. If you go to your mom with a plate of cookies and you ask your mom if

[50:07] plate of cookies and you ask your mom if plate of cookies and you ask your mom if she likes these cookies, she's going to she likes these cookies, she's going to she likes these cookies, she's going to say, "These are great cookies, honey. A, say, "These are great cookies, honey. A, say, "These are great cookies, honey. A, they're chocolate chip. I know they're they're chocolate chip. I know they're they're chocolate chip. I know they're your favorite. Great job." your favorite. Great job." your favorite. Great job." But your mom just wants the path of But your mom just wants the path of But your mom just wants the path of least resistance. If you ask a smarter least resistance. If you ask a smarter least resistance. If you ask a smarter question like, "Hey, mom. How are these question like, "Hey, mom. How are these question like, "Hey, mom. How are these different than the cookies that you different than the cookies that you different than the cookies that you make?" and what process do you usually make?" and what process do you usually make?" and what process do you usually follow to make cookies? follow to make cookies? follow to make cookies? That's a very different outcome for you. That's a very different outcome for you. That's a very different outcome for you. She might explain how these are a little She might explain how these are a little She might explain how these are a little crumblier, more crumbly because there's

[50:39] crumblier, more crumbly because there's crumblier, more crumbly because there's not enough butter, right? And that's a not enough butter, right? And that's a not enough butter, right? And that's a UXR finding that would not have existed UXR finding that would not have existed UXR finding that would not have existed in the in the initial world. So anyways, in the in the initial world. So anyways, in the in the initial world. So anyways, back to the notion. You can basically back to the notion. You can basically back to the notion. You can basically generate questions generate questions generate questions and it will generate audiences for you and it will generate audiences for you and it will generate audiences for you like 50% SMB accountants and finance like 50% SMB accountants and finance like 50% SMB accountants and finance team members. All you have to do is team members. All you have to do is team members. All you have to do is enter like a bit of a research goal what enter like a bit of a research goal what enter like a bit of a research goal what problems you're trying to solve and the

[51:09] problems you're trying to solve and the problems you're trying to solve and the UXR team basically yeah built this tool UXR team basically yeah built this tool UXR team basically yeah built this tool that will like even find the people that that will like even find the people that that will like even find the people that you should talk to to really really you should talk to to really really you should talk to to really really lower the bar of entry to talking to lower the bar of entry to talking to lower the bar of entry to talking to customers. Wow. All right, George. This customers. Wow. All right, George. This customers. Wow. All right, George. This is my favorite part, which is like is my favorite part, which is like is my favorite part, which is like rapidfire questions from the sneak peek rapidfire questions from the sneak peek rapidfire questions from the sneak peek design community. One of the questions design community. One of the questions design community. One of the questions is from Diane, and she says, "I want to is from Diane, and she says, "I want to is from Diane, and she says, "I want to know now that AI is helping to design know now that AI is helping to design know now that AI is helping to design and ship faster, where is the biggest and ship faster, where is the biggest and ship faster, where is the biggest bottleneck in the product process?" bottleneck in the product process?" bottleneck in the product process?" What's your answer to that, George? Wow.

[51:41] What's your answer to that, George? Wow. What's your answer to that, George? Wow. I think that the biggest bottleneck is I think that the biggest bottleneck is I think that the biggest bottleneck is probably probably probably defining what you want to build and defining what you want to build and defining what you want to build and getting alignment on that first. Just getting alignment on that first. Just getting alignment on that first. Just because everyone has a 3D printer, it because everyone has a 3D printer, it because everyone has a 3D printer, it doesn't make them an engineer and all of doesn't make them an engineer and all of doesn't make them an engineer and all of a sudden you just like end up with, you a sudden you just like end up with, you a sudden you just like end up with, you know, dozens of artifacts and it's work know, dozens of artifacts and it's work know, dozens of artifacts and it's work for people to go through these artifacts for people to go through these artifacts for people to go through these artifacts and evaluate them. I think that the and evaluate them. I think that the and evaluate them. I think that the biggest bottleneck is a really good biggest bottleneck is a really good biggest bottleneck is a really good starting document. aligning everyone

[52:11] starting document. aligning everyone starting document. aligning everyone around the problem that you're solving. around the problem that you're solving. around the problem that you're solving. This could look like a product spec, but This could look like a product spec, but This could look like a product spec, but it doesn't have to come from PM. it doesn't have to come from PM. it doesn't have to come from PM. Especially in a world where like Especially in a world where like Especially in a world where like prototypes are disposable and I'll share prototypes are disposable and I'll share prototypes are disposable and I'll share one link and then maybe the link updates one link and then maybe the link updates one link and then maybe the link updates like a central area uh that serves as a like a central area uh that serves as a like a central area uh that serves as a source of truth for the project has source of truth for the project has source of truth for the project has become a blocker in some project and become a blocker in some project and become a blocker in some project and then like the thing that really unlocks then like the thing that really unlocks then like the thing that really unlocks speed in others because speed in others because speed in others because anyone can build anything now and there anyone can build anything now and there anyone can build anything now and there therefore like what's important like

[52:41] therefore like what's important like therefore like what's important like which one of these prototypes is which one of these prototypes is which one of these prototypes is successful? you you really need a a successful? you you really need a a successful? you you really need a a strong written document to start in my strong written document to start in my strong written document to start in my perspective. But what do you think Jay? perspective. But what do you think Jay? perspective. But what do you think Jay? &gt;&gt; See, I come from a place where I've &gt;&gt; See, I come from a place where I've &gt;&gt; See, I come from a place where I've worked in mostly worked in mostly worked in mostly like behemoth design teams. I worked on like behemoth design teams. I worked on like behemoth design teams. I worked on teams that are like 500 people big, 200 teams that are like 500 people big, 200 teams that are like 500 people big, 200 people like that big. And people like that big. And people like that big. And while it's true what Diane is saying while it's true what Diane is saying while it's true what Diane is saying that AI is helping to design and ship that AI is helping to design and ship that AI is helping to design and ship faster

[53:11] faster faster for me I still feel that this what the for me I still feel that this what the for me I still feel that this what the comment that she made is still only comment that she made is still only comment that she made is still only applicable to like startups to like applicable to like startups to like applicable to like startups to like design teams like you like know at ramp design teams like you like know at ramp design teams like you like know at ramp where Diego the head of design is all where Diego the head of design is all where Diego the head of design is all about we got to have every designer about we got to have every designer about we got to have every designer everybody using AI. So to me that's like everybody using AI. So to me that's like everybody using AI. So to me that's like the exception. Still a lot of Fortune the exception. Still a lot of Fortune the exception. Still a lot of Fortune 500 companies are not even at the level 500 companies are not even at the level 500 companies are not even at the level at which you're operating Georgia, you at which you're operating Georgia, you at which you're operating Georgia, you and your team. So before we even answer and your team. So before we even answer and your team. So before we even answer that, I think that a lot of these teams

[53:42] that, I think that a lot of these teams that, I think that a lot of these teams have to start doing what you all are have to start doing what you all are have to start doing what you all are doing before we even worry about the doing before we even worry about the doing before we even worry about the bottleneck. So to me the bottleneck in bottleneck. So to me the bottleneck in bottleneck. So to me the bottleneck in these bigger teams and bigger companies these bigger teams and bigger companies these bigger teams and bigger companies is more of like the fear or the like is more of like the fear or the like is more of like the fear or the like waiting for permission to explore like waiting for permission to explore like waiting for permission to explore like when I think about you showing what you when I think about you showing what you when I think about you showing what you did with magic patterns. No one came and did with magic patterns. No one came and did with magic patterns. No one came and told you like oh like George I think you told you like oh like George I think you told you like oh like George I think you should be assigned for exploring magic should be assigned for exploring magic should be assigned for exploring magic patterns till you took it upon yourself

[54:12] patterns till you took it upon yourself patterns till you took it upon yourself to do it. So I feel like the biggest to do it. So I feel like the biggest to do it. So I feel like the biggest bottleneck I at least see in big bottleneck I at least see in big bottleneck I at least see in big enterprise teams is that we need more enterprise teams is that we need more enterprise teams is that we need more entrepreneurs like you that are pushing entrepreneurs like you that are pushing entrepreneurs like you that are pushing the boundary and setting the precedent the boundary and setting the precedent the boundary and setting the precedent of how everybody on the team should use of how everybody on the team should use of how everybody on the team should use AI. And I think once we get there then AI. And I think once we get there then AI. And I think once we get there then we can say that well majority of the we can say that well majority of the we can say that well majority of the design teams across the board are using design teams across the board are using design teams across the board are using AI to kind of design and shift faster. AI to kind of design and shift faster. AI to kind of design and shift faster. And I think once we get there, then I

[54:42] And I think once we get there, then I And I think once we get there, then I think the answer to my answer to Dan's think the answer to my answer to Dan's think the answer to my answer to Dan's original question would be like the original question would be like the original question would be like the biggest bottleneck then would be coming biggest bottleneck then would be coming biggest bottleneck then would be coming up with something that's original, up with something that's original, up with something that's original, something that's ingenuine, right? Like something that's ingenuine, right? Like something that's ingenuine, right? Like I'm seeing a lot of people just publish I'm seeing a lot of people just publish I'm seeing a lot of people just publish something for the sake of it or create something for the sake of it or create something for the sake of it or create something for the heck of it just something for the heck of it just something for the heck of it just because they can say, "Oh, I'm using AI because they can say, "Oh, I'm using AI because they can say, "Oh, I'm using AI to do it." But I still think before to do it." But I still think before to do it." But I still think before jumping to AI, you got to have something jumping to AI, you got to have something jumping to AI, you got to have something that's very unique, something that's that's very unique, something that's that's very unique, something that's very true, something that's really very true, something that's really very true, something that's really solving a true customer problem. And I

[55:14] solving a true customer problem. And I solving a true customer problem. And I think that's something that like AI is think that's something that like AI is think that's something that like AI is not going to help you. AI, it's going to not going to help you. AI, it's going to not going to help you. AI, it's going to help you design and ship, but it's not help you design and ship, but it's not help you design and ship, but it's not going to help you come up with all like going to help you come up with all like going to help you come up with all like the pain points to solve or come up with the pain points to solve or come up with the pain points to solve or come up with solutions. So solutions. So solutions. So that's my long-winded answer. I don't that's my long-winded answer. I don't that's my long-winded answer. I don't know if that made sense, but that's what know if that made sense, but that's what know if that made sense, but that's what I feel. I feel. I feel. I like your point about originality and I like your point about originality and I like your point about originality and and finding the right problem to solve and finding the right problem to solve and finding the right problem to solve in the first place because to hammer in the first place because to hammer in the first place because to hammer everything looks like a nail and an AI

[55:44] everything looks like a nail and an AI everything looks like a nail and an AI is just going to like be your cute is just going to like be your cute is just going to like be your cute little buddy that wants to do it all for little buddy that wants to do it all for little buddy that wants to do it all for you. You got to figure out when to say you. You got to figure out when to say you. You got to figure out when to say yes, when to say no. Like for example, yes, when to say no. Like for example, yes, when to say no. Like for example, like this screen that you're seeing like this screen that you're seeing like this screen that you're seeing here, the pattern here, the title AI here, the pattern here, the title AI here, the pattern here, the title AI design with magic pattern, someone's oh design with magic pattern, someone's oh design with magic pattern, someone's oh just feed it to chat GPT. It will come just feed it to chat GPT. It will come just feed it to chat GPT. It will come up with thumbnails. It will come up with up with thumbnails. It will come up with up with thumbnails. It will come up with the questions. It will come up with a the questions. It will come up with a the questions. It will come up with a post here, right? Like no AI told me to post here, right? Like no AI told me to post here, right? Like no AI told me to come up with this subject line for my come up with this subject line for my come up with this subject line for my post. Like I'm interviewing the RAM post. Like I'm interviewing the RAM post. Like I'm interviewing the RAM design team on how they design using design team on how they design using design team on how they design using that was just my intuition. And what is

[56:16] that was just my intuition. And what is that was just my intuition. And what is that intuition based on? That's based on that intuition based on? That's based on that intuition based on? That's based on hundreds and hundreds of LinkedIn posts hundreds and hundreds of LinkedIn posts hundreds and hundreds of LinkedIn posts that I've created. So could I have used that I've created. So could I have used that I've created. So could I have used Chat GB to create it? Probably. But this Chat GB to create it? Probably. But this Chat GB to create it? Probably. But this is just something where I felt like, is just something where I felt like, is just something where I felt like, hey, I'm noticing a lot of designers DM hey, I'm noticing a lot of designers DM hey, I'm noticing a lot of designers DM me, ask me, talk about this. I think it me, ask me, talk about this. I think it me, ask me, talk about this. I think it makes sense. So this is where the makes sense. So this is where the makes sense. So this is where the originality or my Jace POV comes into originality or my Jace POV comes into originality or my Jace POV comes into play. No Chad GPT is going to tell me to play. No Chad GPT is going to tell me to play. No Chad GPT is going to tell me to do it. Like even the whole interview do it. Like even the whole interview do it. Like even the whole interview today or the topics we focused on these

[56:47] today or the topics we focused on these today or the topics we focused on these topics, these are not sourced from Chad topics, these are not sourced from Chad topics, these are not sourced from Chad GPT. This is just like Jay's observation GPT. This is just like Jay's observation GPT. This is just like Jay's observation on what could be relevant or what the on what could be relevant or what the on what could be relevant or what the design community needs. So I think design community needs. So I think design community needs. So I think having a strong POV is going to be the having a strong POV is going to be the having a strong POV is going to be the biggest bottleneck like people having a biggest bottleneck like people having a biggest bottleneck like people having a strong POE that is not backed by LLM, strong POE that is not backed by LLM, strong POE that is not backed by LLM, not backed by any of these agents. not backed by any of these agents. not backed by any of these agents. &gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. You got to know what you &gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. You got to know what you &gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. You got to know what you want to work on and you got to be able want to work on and you got to be able want to work on and you got to be able to convince other people of it too. So

[57:18] to convince other people of it too. So to convince other people of it too. So chat is not going to be bad for us. And chat is not going to be bad for us. And chat is not going to be bad for us. And before I go to that, I'm still one of before I go to that, I'm still one of before I go to that, I'm still one of those creators that is not using AI those creators that is not using AI those creators that is not using AI tools in many ways in my process. And I tools in many ways in my process. And I tools in many ways in my process. And I still feel like still feel like still feel like I get it's just if I have to forcefully I get it's just if I have to forcefully I get it's just if I have to forcefully use something just for the heck of it so use something just for the heck of it so use something just for the heck of it so I can be like, oh look, this is how I I can be like, oh look, this is how I I can be like, oh look, this is how I use chat GPT plus Journey to create my use chat GPT plus Journey to create my use chat GPT plus Journey to create my YouTube thumbnails. I'm like, no, it's YouTube thumbnails. I'm like, no, it's YouTube thumbnails. I'm like, no, it's super easy for me to just quickly go in super easy for me to just quickly go in super easy for me to just quickly go in Figma and update my thumbnails. That's Figma and update my thumbnails. That's Figma and update my thumbnails. That's my process. That's it. It's not fancy.

[57:49] my process. That's it. It's not fancy. my process. That's it. It's not fancy. It's not sexy. It's not going to get any It's not sexy. It's not going to get any It's not sexy. It's not going to get any likes, but doesn't matter. It's what likes, but doesn't matter. It's what likes, but doesn't matter. It's what works. And until I'm convinced that works. And until I'm convinced that works. And until I'm convinced that using AI in some way, like for example, using AI in some way, like for example, using AI in some way, like for example, like someone like one creator was like, like someone like one creator was like, like someone like one creator was like, "Oh, I use chat GPT as my business "Oh, I use chat GPT as my business "Oh, I use chat GPT as my business partner, my coach to tell me things to partner, my coach to tell me things to partner, my coach to tell me things to focus on as a creator." I'm like, focus on as a creator." I'm like, focus on as a creator." I'm like, "That's good." I use journaling. I use "That's good." I use journaling. I use "That's good." I use journaling. I use diary. I use conversations with other diary. I use conversations with other diary. I use conversations with other creators to figure out what I need to creators to figure out what I need to creators to figure out what I need to focus on. That's my process. I tried the focus on. That's my process. I tried the focus on. That's my process. I tried the whole chat GBT feeding it all my

[58:21] whole chat GBT feeding it all my whole chat GBT feeding it all my weaknesses, my concerns and stuff, but weaknesses, my concerns and stuff, but weaknesses, my concerns and stuff, but honestly, man, I was not impressed. I honestly, man, I was not impressed. I honestly, man, I was not impressed. I felt like all that effort I put into felt like all that effort I put into felt like all that effort I put into chat GPT and giving it all the context chat GPT and giving it all the context chat GPT and giving it all the context about sneak peek. I got more value by about sneak peek. I got more value by about sneak peek. I got more value by jumping on a call with my buddy Rid who jumping on a call with my buddy Rid who jumping on a call with my buddy Rid who hosts the dive club podcast and we just hosts the dive club podcast and we just hosts the dive club podcast and we just had a jam session that was way more had a jam session that was way more had a jam session that was way more productive, 100x more productive than productive, 100x more productive than productive, 100x more productive than whatever chat GPDK was outputs. I see an whatever chat GPDK was outputs. I see an whatever chat GPDK was outputs. I see an emerging discourse that I hope gets even emerging discourse that I hope gets even emerging discourse that I hope gets even larger and more important because it's

[58:53] larger and more important because it's larger and more important because it's like a core principle of mine which is like a core principle of mine which is like a core principle of mine which is that like struggle is an important part that like struggle is an important part that like struggle is an important part of the process and grappling with being of the process and grappling with being of the process and grappling with being incorrect and wrong and trying to find incorrect and wrong and trying to find incorrect and wrong and trying to find your way to a nugget of wisdom by your way to a nugget of wisdom by your way to a nugget of wisdom by yourself or with the help of your peers yourself or with the help of your peers yourself or with the help of your peers is the only way that humans get smarter. is the only way that humans get smarter. is the only way that humans get smarter. and like outsourcing that to GPT every and like outsourcing that to GPT every and like outsourcing that to GPT every time like whatever if you want to do it time like whatever if you want to do it time like whatever if you want to do it sometimes for some things that's no sometimes for some things that's no sometimes for some things that's no problem but it is not the like be all

[59:26] problem but it is not the like be all problem but it is not the like be all end all thought partner for me because end all thought partner for me because end all thought partner for me because I've noticed it honestly makes me more I've noticed it honestly makes me more I've noticed it honestly makes me more stupid over time it like reduces stupid over time it like reduces stupid over time it like reduces critical thinking and I just need to sit critical thinking and I just need to sit critical thinking and I just need to sit down with a document and struggle for a down with a document and struggle for a down with a document and struggle for a while sometimes and like there's while sometimes and like there's while sometimes and like there's actually a lot of opportunity in that actually a lot of opportunity in that actually a lot of opportunity in that struggle so I've been seeing the struggle so I've been seeing the struggle so I've been seeing the discourse course. I appreciate it. I discourse course. I appreciate it. I discourse course. I appreciate it. I hope it gets bigger. I just wanted to hope it gets bigger. I just wanted to hope it gets bigger. I just wanted to drop that in too. drop that in too. drop that in too. &gt;&gt; Couldn't agree more, man. And then we've &gt;&gt; Couldn't agree more, man. And then we've &gt;&gt; Couldn't agree more, man. And then we've got last question from X where V is got last question from X where V is got last question from X where V is asking question for you and the team,

[59:57] asking question for you and the team, asking question for you and the team, George. What are your plans with the George. What are your plans with the George. What are your plans with the ramp design system? Are you going to use ramp design system? Are you going to use ramp design system? Are you going to use AI or any specific tools to maintain it? AI or any specific tools to maintain it? AI or any specific tools to maintain it? &gt;&gt; Oh, I would love to do this question &gt;&gt; Oh, I would love to do this question &gt;&gt; Oh, I would love to do this question justice. I can only sort of do that. So justice. I can only sort of do that. So justice. I can only sort of do that. So that what I would say is we're still that what I would say is we're still that what I would say is we're still using basic building blocks for the using basic building blocks for the using basic building blocks for the design system. We have markdown files so design system. We have markdown files so design system. We have markdown files so that we can translate part of the design that we can translate part of the design that we can translate part of the design system to something like magic patterns system to something like magic patterns system to something like magic patterns to consume.

[1:00:27] to consume. to consume. This usually comes down to design tokens This usually comes down to design tokens This usually comes down to design tokens does not translate very well to things does not translate very well to things does not translate very well to things like atomic elements or components. like atomic elements or components. like atomic elements or components. Right now, I don't think AI is in the Right now, I don't think AI is in the Right now, I don't think AI is in the process of maintaining or publishing. process of maintaining or publishing. process of maintaining or publishing. Humans are still writing documentation Humans are still writing documentation Humans are still writing documentation for our design system. Humans are still for our design system. Humans are still for our design system. Humans are still putting up PRs for our design system. putting up PRs for our design system. putting up PRs for our design system. Um, but cursor tab is ubiquitous or Um, but cursor tab is ubiquitous or Um, but cursor tab is ubiquitous or codebase. So, I would say there's codebase. So, I would say there's codebase. So, I would say there's probably instances where design

[1:00:57] probably instances where design probably instances where design engineers are using cursor tab to maybe engineers are using cursor tab to maybe engineers are using cursor tab to maybe move a little bit faster. But the thing move a little bit faster. But the thing move a little bit faster. But the thing that we'd really like to solve is that we'd really like to solve is that we'd really like to solve is translating Ryu, which is like our translating Ryu, which is like our translating Ryu, which is like our design system into Legos for people to design system into Legos for people to design system into Legos for people to use prototypes, magic patterns, but 100% use prototypes, magic patterns, but 100% use prototypes, magic patterns, but 100% RAM components, no shad CN, only RAM components, no shad CN, only RAM components, no shad CN, only documented colors from the design documented colors from the design documented colors from the design system. We're trying to do that system. We're trying to do that system. We're trying to do that internally. I think we have more internally. I think we have more internally. I think we have more confidence that we can do it versus like confidence that we can do it versus like confidence that we can do it versus like hiring an external vendor. But whoever

[1:01:27] hiring an external vendor. But whoever hiring an external vendor. But whoever solves that problem, like I said solves that problem, like I said solves that problem, like I said earlier, is going to be a earlier, is going to be a earlier, is going to be a multi-millionaire. And that's what we're multi-millionaire. And that's what we're multi-millionaire. And that's what we're hoping to build, at least for the hoping to build, at least for the hoping to build, at least for the internal team. internal team. internal team. &gt;&gt; Thank you so much, George, for coming on &gt;&gt; Thank you so much, George, for coming on &gt;&gt; Thank you so much, George, for coming on Sneak Peek and sharing your best Sneak Peek and sharing your best Sneak Peek and sharing your best practices on using AI. David, thanks for practices on using AI. David, thanks for practices on using AI. David, thanks for asking great questions. It's been an asking great questions. It's been an asking great questions. It's been an [music] honor. Hey, this is Jay. It [music] honor. Hey, this is Jay. It [music] honor. Hey, this is Jay. It means the world to me that you watch means the world to me that you watch means the world to me that you watch this video. If you want to unlock the AI this video. If you want to unlock the AI this video. If you want to unlock the AI design and growth to design interviews design and growth to design interviews design and growth to design interviews with designers at some of the top with designers at some of the top with designers at some of the top companies in the world, then head on companies in the world, then head on companies in the world, then head on over to sneak peek.design and subscribe

[1:01:59] over to sneak peek.design and subscribe over to sneak peek.design and subscribe to the newsletter.
---
Generated by https://youtube-transcript.ai — free YouTube transcript & summary extractor.
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=mH5qIPx47jw
Beta
0 / 10
used queries
1